ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the SEC before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. 25 RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS: If we fail to raise additional capital in the near future, our business will fail. We have very limited cash resources and will need to raise additional capital in the immediate future through a sale or other strategic transaction involving our Surgical Ablation System, public or private financings or other arrangements in order to continue operations. If we are unable to do so, our business will fail. Even assuming no increase in our cash utilization rate from recent months, management estimates that our cash balance as of March 31, 2006 will be sufficient to fund planned expenditures only for a very limited period of time, although the actual level of expenditures cannot be predicted with certainty and it is possible that our cash balance may be exhausted sooner than currently anticipated. We cannot assure you that additional capital will be available to us when needed, if at all, or, if available, will be obtained on terms attractive to us. Our financing arrangements contain, and, if we succeed in closing future financings, those future financings will likely contain, terms which place substantial restrictions on our ability to raise the further funding, such as anti-dilution protection in the event of subsequent financings. We had negative cash flow from operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 of $6.0 million, and we expect to continue to incur substantial negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. We may be required to expend greater than anticipated funds if unforeseen difficulties arise in the course of completing the development, approval and marketing of our products, such as the additional clinical trial activities that the U.S. FDA recently stated would be required with respect to our PMA for REVELATION(R) Tx, or in other aspects of our business. Even if we raise capital in the near term, our future cash needs may, at a minimum, cause us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our product research and development programs, to limit the marketing of our products, or to license or sell to third parties the rights to commercialize our products or technologies that we would otherwise develop and market ourselves. Furthermore, our November 2004 equity financing included, and future debt or equity financing, if available, will likely involve, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that impair our ability to raise additional capital and operate our business. Our failure to raise capital when needed would likely cause us to cease our operations. We have financed our operations since inception primarily through the private placement of equity securities, proceeds from our initial public offering in June 1997, loan facilities and the sale of certain of our patents and other intellectual property. Although our management recognizes the need to raise funds in the immediate future, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any fundraising transaction, or if we do consummate such a transaction, that its terms and conditions will not require us to give investors valuable rights with respect to our products or technology, warrants or other valuable rights to purchase additional interests in our company, or be otherwise unfavorable to us. Among other things, the agreements under which we issued some of our existing securities include, and any securities that we may issue in the future will likely include, terms that could impede our ability to raise additional funding, such as terms requiring the consent of certain security holders before we issue or register additional securities and anti-dilution protection giving those holders the right to receive additional shares of our common stock depending on the terms of our later financings. We may be required to issue preferred stock, debt or other securities with rights and preferences senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of additional securities will likely dilute the interests of existing common stockholders, and could impose additional restrictions on how we operate and finance our business. We have sold a limited number of our products, and we will continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have sold only a limited number of our micro-catheter and surgical products. In addition, we will continue to incur substantial losses into the foreseeable future because of research and product development, clinical trials, regulatory approval efforts and manufacturing, sales, marketing and other expenses as we seek to obtain necessary approvals and bring our micro-catheters and surgical products to market. Since our inception, we have experienced losses, and we expect to experience substantial net losses into the foreseeable future. Our net losses were approximately $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and approximately $9.7 million, and $13.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $121.8 million. Our limited sales history, and the fact that we have very limited cash resources, makes it difficult to assess or predict our future results. We cannot be certain that we will ever generate substantial revenue or achieve profitability. Our failure to generate substantial revenues would harm our business. 26 Our need to raise additional capital in the near future could have a dilutive effect on your investment. In order to continue operations, we will need to immediately raise additional capital. Subject to the contractual restrictions described above, we may attempt to raise capital through the public or private sale of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock. If we sell additional shares of our common stock or warrants, such sales will further dilute the percentage of our equity that you own. In addition, our recent private placement financings have involved the issuance of securities at a price per share that represented a discount to the closing price of our common stock and any future private placements will likely involve the issuance of securities at a discount to prevailing market prices. Depending upon the price per share of securities that we sell in the future, if any, your interest in us could be further diluted by any adjustments to the number of shares and the applicable exercise price required pursuant to the terms of the agreements under which we previously issued securities. No assurance can be given that previous or future investors, finders or placement agents will not claim that they are entitled to additional anti-dilution adjustments or dispute the Company's calculation of any such adjustments. Any such claim or dispute could require us to incur material costs and expenses regardless of the resolution and, if resolved unfavorably to us, to effect dilutive securities issuances or adjustments to previously issued securities. In addition, certain of our prior securities issuances have included, and future financings may also include, provisions requiring us to make additional payments to the investors if we fail to obtain or maintain the effectiveness of SEC registration statements by specified dates or take other specified action. Our ability to meet these requirements may depend on actions by regulators and other third parties, over which we will have no control. These provisions may require us to make payments or issue additional dilutive securities, or could lead to costly and disruptive disputes. In addition, these provisions could require us to record additional non-cash expenses, as we were required to do in the third quarter of 2003 with respect to certain warrants issued in that quarter. The audit report accompanying our 2005 financial statements expresses substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our losses to date and accumulated deficit, the audit report on our 2005 financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit reports on our 2004 and 2003 financial statements contained similar explanatory paragraphs. Our continuation as a going concern will depend upon our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis and ultimately to attain profitable operations. Concern about our ability to continue as a going concern may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional funding to meet our obligations or adversely affect the terms of any additional funding we are able to obtain. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses until successful commercialization of one or more of our products. There can be no assurance that we can or will operate profitably in the future, or that we will continue as a going concern. We must obtain governmental approvals or clearances before we can sell our products. Our products are considered to be medical devices and are subject to regulation in the United States and internationally. These regulations are wide ranging and govern, among other things: o product design and development; o product testing; o product labeling; o product storage; o pre-market clearance and approval; o advertising and promotion; and o product sales and distribution. Before we can market any of our products in the United States or other countries, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective and obtain approval or clearance from the applicable governmental authorities. In the United States, we must obtain from the FDA 510(k) pre-market notification clearance for devices that are classified as Class II or lower, or a PMA for devices classified as Class III, such as REVELATION(R) Tx, in order to market a 27 product. Currently, the process for 510(k) clearance requires approximately 120 days and PMA application review process requires approximately six to twelve months. The PMA application review process is in addition to the time required to conduct clinical trials demonstrating safety and effectiveness. However, the timing of such processes can be uncertain and may involve significantly more time. We cannot guarantee either the timing or receipt of regulatory approval or clearance for any of our products in development. The FDA may request extensive clinical data to support either 510(k) clearance or a PMA. The approval process, including any necessary clinical trials, can involve substantial expense. No assurance can be given that we will ever be able to obtain the necessary approvals for any of our products. Our failure to do so on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained, the applicable regulatory agencies may limit the indications for which they approve or clear any of our products. Further, the FDA or regulatory agencies in other countries may restrict or withdraw approval or clearance of a product if additional information becomes available to support such action. Delays in the approval or clearance process, limitation of our labeling claims or denial of our applications or notifications would cause our business to be materially and adversely affected. None of our ablation products for electrophysiology has received regulatory approval in the United States. Our failure to receive these approvals will harm our business. To date, although we received 510(k) clearance for the use of the SAS to ablate cardiac tissue, none of our electrophysiology products in development for the ablation of AF or VT has received regulatory approval in the United States. Our SAS has received 510(k) clearance only for ablating cardiac tissue and not for any other purpose or any specified treatment. If we cannot gain U.S. regulatory approvals, our business will be materially harmed and we may be unable to secure the funding needed to continue operations. Even if we raise the funding necessary to continue operations, successfully develop our ablation products and obtain the required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our ablation products and their associated procedures will ultimately gain market acceptance. Because our sole product focus is to design and market micro-catheter systems to map and ablate AF and VT, our failure to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize these systems would materially harm our business. In the United States, we are required to seek a PMA for our ablation products, including the REVELATION(R) Tx micro-catheter, since they have been classified as Class III devices. The process of obtaining a PMA is expensive, lengthy and uncertain and requires clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the product. In December 1997, the FDA approved a 10-patient AF feasibility study for mapping and ablation with the REVELATION(R) Tx. We received FDA approval to conduct a Phase III clinical trial for this system in 2000, and filed portions of the PMA application in 2001. On September 20, 2002, we submitted our PMA application to the FDA with data on more than 80 patients treated with our REVELATION(R) Tx micro-catheter system. We met with the Circulatory Systems Device Panel on May 29, 2003, and on that date, the Panel recommended that the FDA not approve our PMA application for the REVELATION(R) Tx linear ablation micro-catheter system. The Circulatory System Devices Panel felt that the efficacy data was not sufficiently clear and supportive for the approval. The Panel provided the FDA and the Company with several suggestions on how to possibly reexamine the existing data or how to collect more data on existing patients. On June 26, 2003, we received a letter from the FDA, which reiterated the recommendation of the Panel and stated the FDA concurred with the recommendation of the Panel. On January 20, 2004, we submitted an amended PMA application that provided new analysis, including data from an expanded patient base, to the FDA. On May 28, 2004 we received a letter, dated May 21, 2004, from the FDA, stating that our PMA application for the REVELATION(R) Tx linear ablation micro-catheter system was not approvable based on the requirements of applicable regulations. The letter stated that, although we had provided information on an additional 32 patients in the clinical trial in our PMA application amendment submitted in January 2004, the concerns identified in the FDA's initial non-approvable letter of June 26, 2003 remain unresolved. Among other things, the FDA's letter stated that FDA position that the least burdensome approach to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of REVELATION(R) Tx for the intended indication is to collect additional clinical data using a randomized clinical trial design. At a meeting with the FDA's CDRH on June 18, 2004, the FDA representatives reiterated the view that data from an additional study would be necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of REVELATION(R) Tx for AF, and that the nature of the trial's primary goal would require a randomized clinical trial design. The development and implementation of a new clinical trial would require substantial expenditures and management attention, and the timing and success of any such trial cannot be assured. On June 10, 2005, we met with the FDA's CDRH to continue the process towards seeking approval for the REVELATION(R) Tx ablation catheter for treatment of AF. The focus of this latest meeting was to exchange views on each other's positions and to discuss the issues stated in the May 21, 2004, and the June 26, 2003, FDA non-approvable letters. No conclusions were reached at the end of the three-hour meeting, but both sides agreed to continue the dialog. The parties have not set a date for a follow-up meeting. 28 We believe that the data submitted in January 2004 in an amended PMA for the REVELATION Tx provides sufficient support for safety and effectiveness to reduce symptomatic AF burden and improve the quality of life of patients suffering from self-terminating but very uncomfortable AF within the least burdensome guidelines of the FDA. Trial data indicated substantial and statistically significant improvements were realized almost uniformly for all measured arrhythmia symptoms as well as for quality-of-life measures. The study demonstrated that the addition of right atrial catheter ablation to a regimen of previously ineffective AADs yields a significant reduction in the frequency, duration and severity of AF episodes and symptoms. Of the ninety-three subjects included in the trial, eighty-four subjects (90%) provided six-month AF episode frequency data. This data demonstrated a significant decrease in symptomatic frequency when compared to baseline. In addition, forty-nine subjects (58%) were considered a clinical success by protocol definition. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are inherently unpredictable. If we do not successfully conduct these trials, we may be unable to market or sell our products. Through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for their indicated uses. Results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not allow us to predict results in later-stage testing. No assurance can be given that, even if we are able to afford to conduct future clinical trials, those trials will demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our products or will result in regulatory approval to market our products. We may never meet our development schedule for any of our products in development. Even if a product is successfully developed and clinically tested, we cannot be certain that it will be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agency on a timely basis or at all. If the FDA does not approve our products for commercial sales, our business will be harmed. As described above, we have devoted considerable resources to developing, testing and seeking regulatory approval for our REVELATION(R) Tx micro-catheter systems designed for ablation of AF. On May 28, 2004 we received a letter, dated May 21, 2004, from the FDA, stating that our PMA application for the REVELATION(R) Tx linear ablation micro-catheter system was not approvable based on the requirements of applicable regulations. Among other things, the FDA's letter stated the FDA's position that the least burdensome approach to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of REVELATION(R) Tx for the intended indication is to collect additional clinical data using a randomized clinical trial design. At a meeting with the FDA's CDRH on June 18, 2004, the FDA representatives reiterated the view that data from an additional study would be necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of REVELATION(R) Tx for AF, and that the nature of the trial's primary goal would require a randomized clinical trial design. The development and implementation of a new clinical trial would require substantial expenditures and management attention, and the timing and success of any such trial cannot be assured. On June 10, 2005, we met with the FDA's CDRH to continue the process towards seeking approval for the REVELATION(R) Tx ablation catheter for treatment of AF. The focus of this latest meeting was to exchange views on each other's positions and to discuss the issues stated in the May 21, 2004, and the June 26, 2003, FDA non-approvable letters. No conclusions were reached at the end of the three-hour meeting, but both sides agreed to continue the dialog. The parties have not set a date for a follow-up meeting. We believe that the data submitted in January 2004 in an amended PMA for the REVELATION Tx provides sufficient support for safety and effectiveness to reduce symptomatic AF burden and improve the quality of life of patients suffering from self-terminating but very uncomfortable AF within the least burdensome guidelines of the FDA. Trial data indicated substantial and statistically significant improvements were realized almost uniformly for all measured arrhythmia symptoms as well as for quality-of-life measures. The study demonstrated that the addition of right atrial catheter ablation to a regimen of previously ineffective AADs yields a significant reduction in the frequency, duration and severity of AF episodes and symptoms. Of the ninety-three subjects included in the trial, eighty-four subjects (90%) provided six-month AF episode frequency data. This data demonstrated a significant decrease in symptomatic frequency when compared to baseline. In addition, forty-nine subjects (58%) were considered a clinical success by protocol definition. We must receive PMA approval before marketing our products for ablation in the United States. In December 2001, the REVELATION(R) Helix received the CE mark allowing sales in the European Economic Area. We also received in December 1999 approval for an IDE to begin clinical testing of our THERASTREAM(TM) micro-catheter system for ablation of VT and during calendar year 2000 approval to expand that trial; however, we have postponed the clinical feasibility trial for the THERASTREAM(TM) micro-catheter system for ablation of VT to focus on obtaining regulatory approval of our REVELATION(R) Tx for AF. We have no estimate as to when, or if, we will resume the clinical trial for our THERASTREAM(TM) micro-catheter system. If we resume that trial, completing it could take several years. Current or future clinical trials of our micro-catheter systems will require substantial financial and management resources. In addition, the clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that we will need to overcome before obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals or market acceptance. Our failure to complete our clinical trials, demonstrate product safety and clinical effectiveness, or obtain regulatory approval for the use of our micro-catheter system for the ablation of AF would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials could increase our expenses and harm our business. The rate at which we may complete our pre-clinical and clinical trials is dependent upon, among other things, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the procedure, the proximity of patients' residences to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and impact of other clinical studies competing for the same patient population and/or the same physicians' time and research efforts. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays, which could cause our business results to suffer. We have entered into engagement letters in connection with our actual and proposed private placements that have in the past and may in future lead to disputes and also may lead to additional payments of cash or issuances of securities in connection with past or future sales of our securities. We have entered into several agreements with parties to act as our financial advisors, finders or agents in connection with actual and proposed equity financings during 2001 through 2004. These agreements have provided that we will pay cash fees, generally expressed as 6% to 8% of the funds raised, and issue warrants to purchase specified numbers of shares of our common stock, generally not exceeding 10% of the number of shares sold, to these parties in connection with our financings. Additional details concerning the terms of these various agreements, and the fees and warrants previously paid to these parties, can be reviewed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2005. In connection with our prior financings, some of these advisors, finders and agents have alleged that they are owed additional cash and warrant compensation to which we have felt they were not entitled, and which would be in addition to fees and warrants paid to other advisors with respect to the same investors. Our financial advisors, finders and agents may assert similar claims in the future. For example, by letters dated September 19, 2003 and January 29, 2004, an advisor that we had retained in November 2002 (under an agreement that we terminated effective May 18, 2003) has claimed that under its November 13, 2002 agreement with us, we are obligated to pay such advisor cash fees of $82,500 and warrants to purchase "Units" (comprising 207,698 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 62,309 shares of common stock at an exercise price per share of $0.7282) at an exercise price per Unit of $0.58256, in connection with three enumerated purchasers' investments in our August 2003 private placement. This advisor has also stated its belief that we would have additional obligations to the advisor in the event that other investors in the August 2003 private placement were investors as to which the advisor is entitled to compensation under its agreement. In a letter dated January 29, 2004, the advisor submitted information alleged to support a portion of its claim, and stated its belief that we are obligated to register the claimed securities for resale. In our opinion, this advisor has not established the merits of its claim. We cannot predict whether additional claims will be made, or the resolution of any current or future claims, by this former advisor. In addition, in August 2003, one of the advisors that we retained in connection with our August 2003 private placement notified us of its belief that it was entitled to an additional fee of approximately $35,000 and additional warrants to purchase approximately 47,000 shares of common stock, in connection with the August 2003 private placement. We responded that, based on our possessed information, we believed that such advisor is not entitled to such fees and warrants. To date, we have received no further information from such advisor in support of its claim. Due to the existence of these various letter agreements, we may be obligated to pay cash fees and issue warrants to one or more financial advisors in connection with the closing of any of our private placements. In addition, we may in the future enter into further agreements with financial advisors, finders or placement agents, similar to those discussed above, in connection with private or public offerings of our securities. We might agree to pay to these parties a commission on any sales of securities to investors introduced to us by such parties or a commission based upon the exercise price of any warrants or other securities exercised by investors introduced to us by such parties, and that such commissions will be in addition to commissions payable to other financial advisors, finders and placement agents working on our behalf. In addition, we may agree to issue to these additional financial advisors, finders and placement agents securities such as warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, which could dilute your investment in our company. We also may be obligated to pay termination or break-up fees to our current or future financial advisors, finders and placement agents in connection with our financings. These commissions paid or warrants or other securities issued may be in addition to the commissions payable or securities issuable to other financial advisors, finders or placement agents in respect of the same transaction, and could be substantial. Disputes have arisen from time to time concerning our financial advisors' entitlement to cash and equity compensation associated with our past financings, and additional disputes may arise in the future. Any issuances of 30 equity compensation to advisor could also be restricted by, or give rise to disputes under, the terms or our previously issued securities. Any dispute relating to these advisors will tend to divert management's time and attention from running our business and may cause us to incur material costs and expenses. We have limited sales and limited experience in the sale, marketing and distribution of our products. Our failure to establish an effective direct or indirect sales and marketing force will cause our revenues to decline. We have only limited experience marketing and selling our products in commercial quantities. Currently, we are solely responsible for marketing and distributing our products in the United States. If we receive FDA approval of our PMA application for REVELATION(R) Tx, we may not have an adequate marketing and sales force to adequately sell that product. Expanding our marketing and sales capability to support sales in commercial quantities adequately will require substantial effort and require significant management and financial resources. Our failure to establish an effective sales and marketing force will prevent us from being able to generate significant revenues from the sale of our products. We have only a single direct sales consultant in Europe. Building and managing a larger remote sales force effectively, in Europe or elsewhere, would require additional resources, time and expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to build a successful European business. Failure to do so would harm our business. Currently, international sales and marketing of our PATHFINDER(R), PATHFINDER(R) mini, REVELATION(R) and TRACER(R) micro-catheter systems are conducted through a number of exclusive distributors in certain European countries and Japan and a direct sales consultant in Europe. We have sold only a limited number of systems through these distributors. We cannot be certain that these distributors will be able to effectively market and sell our products. For example, we have terminated several distribution arrangements in Europe because of the distributors' failure to meet minimum sales levels under those agreements. We do not currently plan to market our SAS ourselves, and are currently seeking a strategic transaction for this system. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such an agreement on a timely basis or at all, that any distributor or licensee will devote adequate resources to selling our products, or that distribution relationships will not lead to costly and disruptive disputes. Our failure to establish and maintain successful distribution relationships would harm our business. We rely on multiple third parties to conduct and collect data for the clinical trials of our products. If we are unable to access this data or the FDA refuses to accept the data in a filing, the commercialization of our products will be delayed and our business will be harmed. We often rely on multiple third parties, such as hospitals and universities, to conduct and collect data for our clinical trials. We depend on these third parties to provide access to data and cooperate with us in completing regulatory filings for the approval or clearance of our products. In order for the FDA and other regulatory agencies to accept and rely on the data of a filing, the data collection, analysis and summarization must meet certain standards. We cannot be certain that the clinical data collected by the third parties meet the standards of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If we are unable to rely on the clinical data collected by third parties, or if these third parties do not perform their contractual obligations, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require us to gather additional clinical data. This could significantly delay commercialization of our products, require us to spend additional capital on our clinical trials and harm our business. We cannot assure the safety or effectiveness of our products. To obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals and secure the confidence of physicians and others whose acceptance is needed for our products, we will need to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective. We cannot assure you that our products will be deemed safe and effective. Many of our products, such as our surgical ablation system, which has begun to be used by cardiac surgeons only recently, have not been used to a sufficient extent to permit us to predict their safety and effectiveness. In addition, our products include components and materials supplied by third parties, whose safety and reliability we cannot guarantee. We have occasionally experienced quality issues with some elements of our products, and we may face additional issues in the future. The perceived safety and effectiveness of our products can also depend on their manner of use by physicians and other third parties, which we cannot control. If safety and effectiveness issues arise with any of our products in the future, we may incur liabilities to third parties, lose any regulatory approvals for the applicable product, or be required to redesign the product. These issues will reduce our sales and increase our expenses, possibly substantially. 31 Our products and their related procedures are novel to the market and will require the special training of physicians. If the market does not accept our products and procedures, our revenues will decline. Our micro-catheter systems represent novel approaches to diagnosing and treating AF and VT and our SAS represents a novel approach to ablating cardiac tissue during surgery. Acceptance of our products and procedures by physicians, patients and health care payors will be necessary in order for us to be successful. If the market does not accept our products and the procedures involved in their use, our business would be harmed and our revenues would decline. Our products must be safe, effective and cost efficient in order for them to effectively compete against more established treatments. If we cannot compete with these treatments, our revenues will decline. The market for catheters to diagnose or treat AF and VT is highly competitive. Our micro-catheter systems for the mapping and ablation of AF and VT are new technologies. Safety, cost efficiency and effectiveness are the primary competitive factors in this market. Other competitive factors include the length of time required for products to be developed and receive regulatory approval and, in some cases, reimbursement approval. Existing treatments with which we must compete include: o conventional catheters using the "drag and burn" or "dot to dot" technique; o anti-arrhythmic and anti-coagulant drugs; o external electrical shock to restore normal heart rhythms and defibrillation; o implantable defibrillators; o purposeful destruction of the atrial-ventricular node followed by implantation of a pacemaker; and o open-heart surgery known as the "maze" procedure. Physicians will not recommend the use of our systems unless they can conclude that our systems provide a safe, effective and cost-efficient alternative to current technologies for the mapping and ablation of AF or VT. If our clinical data and other studies do not show that our products are safe and effective, the FDA and other regulators will not approve our products for sale. If our products are not approved, we will not be able to enter the market and we will not be able to generate revenues from their sale. If we do not comply with applicable domestic laws and regulations after obtaining approvals or clearances, our business results may suffer. After initial regulatory approval or clearance of our products, we will continue to be subject to extensive domestic regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement actions by the FDA, and other regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to: o fines; o injunctions; o recall or seizure of products; o withdrawal of marketing approvals or clearances; o refusal by the FDA to grant clearances or approvals; and o civil and criminal penalties. We also are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA's QSR for all of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections, including a pre-approval inspection for PMA products. The QSR relates to product testing and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we do not, or any third-party manufacturer of our products does not, comply with the QSR and cannot be brought into compliance, we 32 will be required to find alternative manufacturers. Identifying and qualifying alternative manufacturers would likely be a long and difficult process. We also are required to provide information to the FDA on deaths or serious injuries alleged to have been associated with the use of our medical devices, as well as product malfunctions that could contribute to death or serious injury. If we fail to comply with these applicable regulations, we may incur substantial business disruption, expenses, penalties, fines and other liabilities and our business results and financial condition could suffer. If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required for approval varies from country to country and may be longer or shorter than the time required in the United States. In order to market any of our products in the member countries of the European Union, we are required to obtain CE Mark certification. CE Mark certification is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with the European Medical Device Directives. We have received CE Mark certification to sell our PATHFINDER(R), PATHFINDER(R) mini, REVELATION(R), REVELATION(R) Tx, REVELATION(R) Helix, and TRACER(R) micro-catheters and VENAPORT(R), VUEPORT(R) and NAVIPORT(R) guiding catheters for mapping in the European Union, and approval to sell some of our products in Canada. We received CE Mark Clearance for the INTELLITEMP(R) radio frequency energy management devices during the first quarter of 2004. We intend to submit data in support of additional CE Mark applications. However, there can be no assurance we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining the CE Mark for any of our products, as the case may be. Failure to receive or maintain approval to affix the CE Mark would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. No assurance can be given that we will ever obtain or maintain such approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed. In July 2003, we received a Section 40 Letter (intention to suspend a medical device license) from the Medical Devices Bureau of the Health Products and Food Branch of Health Canada. On December 1, 2003, after meeting with the Medical Devices Bureau and providing additional analysis from our current trial, we received notification from the Bureau that the medical device license would not be suspended. We may receive similar notices in the future from U.S. or foreign agencies relating to approvals previously obtained or pending regulatory submissions. Reuse of our single-use products could cause our revenues to decline. Although we label all of our micro-catheter systems for single-use only, we are aware that some physicians potentially may reuse these products. Reuse of our micro-catheter systems could reduce revenues from product sales and could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, such misuse of our products could result in personal injury and death. See "Factors Affecting Future Results--We may face product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products." Difficulties presented by international factors could negatively affect our business. A component of our strategy is to expand our international sales revenues. We believe that we will face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Among the international risks we believe are most likely to affect us are: o export license requirements for our products; o exchange rate fluctuations or currency controls; o changes in the regulation of medical products by the European Union or other international regulatory agencies; o the difficulty in managing a direct sales force from abroad; o the financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors and any future international distributors; o domestic or international trade restrictions; and o changes in tariffs. Any of these factors could damage our business results. 33 We may be unable to successfully commercialize our micro-catheter or surgical products, as the industry for them is highly competitive. The market for catheters to map and/or ablate AF and VT is highly competitive, as is the market for surgical ablation products. Several of our competitors are developing different approaches and products for these procedures. These approaches include mapping systems using contact mapping, single-point spatial mapping and non-contact, multi-site electrical mapping technologies, and ablation systems using radio frequency, ultrasound, microwave, laser and cryoblation technologies. Other companies are also developing surgical procedures that could allow physicians to perform the open-heart surgical maze procedure for the treatment of AF in a minimally invasive manner. If any of these new approaches or products proves to be safe, effective and cost effective, our products could be rendered non-competitive or obsolete, which would harm our business. Many of our competitors have an established presence in the field of interventional cardiology and electrophysiology, or the study of the electrical system of the heart. These competitors include C.R. Bard, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Boston Scientific, through its EP Technologies and Cardiac Pathways divisions, Johnson & Johnson, through its Biosense-Webster division and St. Jude Medical, Inc., through its Daig division. These competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including larger research and development staffs and greater experience and capabilities in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing, marketing and distributing products. In addition, other companies are developing proprietary systems for the diagnosis and treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, including Biosense-Webster, a division of Johnson & Johnson, and Endocardial Solutions, Inc. Other companies are also developing, marketing and selling alternative approaches for the treatment of AF and VT, including manufacturers of implantable defibrillators such as Guidant Corporation, Medtronic, Inc. and St. Jude Medical, Inc. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in developing and marketing technologies and products that are safer, more clinically effective and cost-effective than the more established treatments or the new approaches and products being developed and marketed by our competitors. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in developing new technologies and products that will be available before those of our competitors, particularly because of our financial position. Our failure to demonstrate the competitive advantages and achieve market acceptance of our products would significantly harm our business. We license portions of our product technology from potential competitors, and the termination of any of these licenses would harm our business. We rely on license agreements for some of our product technology from potential competitors. A license from Target Therapeutics, Inc., a subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation, is the technological basis for our micro-catheter systems for mapping and ablation. Boston Scientific Corporation currently has research efforts in the field of electrophysiology that may compete with our products. Under the Target Therapeutics license agreement we have an exclusive license under specific issued United States patents. The exclusive license from Target Therapeutics covers the diagnosis and treatment of electrophysiological disorders in areas other than the central nervous system. In addition, we have obtained a non-exclusive license to use Target Therapeutics' technology, provided we have made a substantial improvement of such technology, for the diagnosis or treatment of diseases of the heart, other than by balloon angioplasty. The license will terminate upon the expiration or invalidation of all claims under the underlying patents. In addition, Target Therapeutics has the right to terminate the license earlier if we fail to comply with various commercialization, sublicensing, insurance, royalty, product liability, indemnification, non-competition and other obligations. Furthermore, either party can terminate the license if a material breach remains uncured for thirty days or if either party ceases to be actively engaged in its present business for a period of twelve months. We may lose the licensed rights in the event of an assignment for the benefit of creditors or other bankruptcy or insolvency-related event. The loss of our exclusive rights to the Target Therapeutics-based micro-catheter technology would significantly harm our business. In December 2000, we sold certain patents and related intellectual property pertaining to intravascular sensing and signal detection to Medtronic, Inc., which currently has research efforts in the field of electrophysiology that may compete with our products. We received a perpetual, worldwide license at no cost from Medtronic to use these patents and related intellectual property in our products for mapping and ablation of arrhythmia-causing tissue. In addition, Medtronic agreed not to sublicense the patents within our field of use to any non-affiliated party. We have also licensed a proprietary surface-coating material from another vendor used on certain of our micro-catheters. We cannot be certain that these licenses will continue to be available to us or will be available to us on reasonable terms. The loss of or inability to maintain any of these licenses could result in delays in commercial shipments 34 until we could internally develop or identify, license and integrate equivalent technology. These delays would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to commercialize our products under development if they infringe existing patents or patents that have not yet issued. We believe that our patent applications and products do not interfere with existing patents. However, we cannot be sure that relevant patents have not been issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or commercialize our products. Moreover, because U.S. patent applications are not a matter of public record, a patent application could currently be on file that would prevent us from obtaining a patent issuance. In addition, Congress recently amended the U.S. patent laws to exempt physicians, other health care professionals and affiliated entities from infringement liability for medical and surgical procedures performed on patients. The issuance of any potentially competing patent could harm our business. We have received in the past and expect to continue to receive letters from others threatening to enforce patent or other intellectual rights against us. We cannot be certain that we will not become subject to patent or intellectual property infringement claims or litigation, interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions, or oppositions to patent grants in foreign countries. Any such claim, litigation or proceeding, regardless of the outcome, would likely require us to expend substantial defense costs and would disrupt our business. An adverse determination in litigation, interference or opposition proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to cease using important technology invalidate our intellectual property rights, or require us to license disputed rights from third parties. However, we cannot be certain that any licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain such a license could materially delay the commercialization of our products, require us to expend substantial resources to design and develop alternative to the disputed technology, and otherwise harm our business. Our license with Target Therapeutics does not provide us with indemnification against claims brought by third parties alleging infringement of patent rights. Consequently, we would bear the liability resulting from such claims. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to protect and defend our intellectual property; as such defense is often costly and time-consuming. Our failure to protect our patent rights, trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property would harm our business. If healthcare providers do not receive adequate reimbursement for procedures using our products, the market may not accept our products and our revenues may decline. U.S. healthcare providers, including hospitals and physicians, that purchase micro-catheter products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to reimburse all or a part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed using our products. The success of our products will depend upon the ability of healthcare providers to obtain satisfactory reimbursement for medical procedures in which our micro-catheter systems are used. If these healthcare providers are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, the market may not accept our products and our revenues may decline. Third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device: o has not received appropriate regulatory clearances or approvals; o is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payor; or o is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. If we receive FDA clearance or approval, third-party reimbursement also would depend upon decisions by the United States Health Care Financing Administration for Medicare, as well as by individual health maintenance organizations, private insurers and other payors. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals may be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Many international markets have government-managed health care systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. There can be no assurance that: o reimbursement for our products will be available domestically or internationally; o if available, that such reimbursement will be available in sufficient amounts in the United States or in international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems; or 35 o that physicians will support and advocate reimbursement for procedures using our products. Failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors or changes in government and private third-party payors' policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products would harm our business. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to manufacture our products in high volumes at commercially reasonable costs. We currently manufacture our micro-catheter systems in limited quantities for U.S. and international sales and for pre-clinical and clinical trials. However, we have limited experience manufacturing our products in the amounts necessary to achieve significant commercial sales. For example, we currently do not have the ability to manufacture one of the components of our SAS in substantial quantities. We expect that if U.S. sales of our PATHFINDER(R) micro-catheter products, our REVELATION(R) micro-catheter products, or our SAS increase or if we receive FDA clearance or approvals for other products, we will need to expend significant capital resources and develop additional manufacturing capacity to establish large-scale manufacturing capabilities. However, we could encounter problems related to: o capacity constraints; o production yields; o quality control; and o shortages of qualified personnel. Such problems could affect our ability to adequately scale-up production of our products and fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, which could harm our business. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. Our operations must either undergo QSR compliance inspections conducted by the FDA or receive an FDA exemption from such compliance inspections in order for the FDA to permit us to produce products for sale in the United States. Our facilities and manufacturing processes are subject to inspections from time to time by the FDA, the State of California and European Notified Bodies. We have demonstrated compliance with ISO 13485:2003 or ISO 9001 quality standards, as well as compliance with 93/42/EEC, the Medical Device Directive. We comply with procedures to produce products for sale in Europe. Any failure by us to comply with the QSR requirements or to maintain our compliance with ISO 13485:2003 or ISO 9001 standards and 93/42/EEC, the Medical Device Directive, will require us to take corrective actions, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken to comply with QSR or ISO 13485:2003 or ISO 9001 standards. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with the QSR by regulatory authorities, or that we will maintain compliance with ISO 13485:2003 or ISO 9001 standards in future audits. Our failure to comply with state or FDA QSR, maintain compliance with ISO 13485:2003 or ISO 9001 standards, or develop our manufacturing capability in compliance with such standards, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our facilities and manufacturing processes have undergone a successful annual surveillance audit by the European Notified Body in December 2004 and a pre-PMA inspection in December 2003. In November 2000 and in January 2003, the FDA conducted an inspection of our quality system, which we successfully passed. There is no assurance that our manufacturing facilities will continue to meet such compliance audits and will maintain such compliance standards. If our sole-source suppliers are unable to meet our demands, our business results will suffer. We purchase certain key components for some of our products, from sole, single or limited source suppliers. For some of these components, there are relatively few alternative sources of supply. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for any of the numerous components used in our products, if required, may not be accomplished quickly and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from vendors or failure to obtain alternative vendors for any of the numerous components used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products. Any such limitation on our ability to manufacture our products would cause our business results to suffer. 36 We may face product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our products. We face an inherent business risk of product liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. We have received claims of this type in the past and may receive additional claims in the future. We cannot be certain, in particular after commercial introduction of our products, that we will not experience losses due to product liability claims. Although we currently have general liability and product liability insurance coverage, this coverage is subject to per-occurrence and annual limitations, as well as substantial deductibles. We cannot be certain that such coverage will be adequate or continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that all of the activities encompassed within our business are or will be covered under our policies. Although we label our micro-catheter products for single-use only, we are aware that some physicians are re-using such products. Moreover, despite labeling our micro-catheters for diagnostic use only, we believe that physicians are using such mapping micro-catheters for ablation. Multiple use or "off-label" use of our micro-catheters could subject us to increased exposure to product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional product liability coverage if we significantly expand commercialization of our products. Such additional coverage is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Any claims or series of claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our key personnel. Our ability to operate successfully depends in significant part upon the continued service of certain key scientific, technical, clinical, regulatory and managerial personnel, and our continuing ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. Competition for such personnel is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area. We cannot be certain that we can retain such personnel or that, if we are able to raise additional capital in amounts sufficient to maintain and expand our operations, we will be able to attract or retain other highly qualified scientific, technical, clinical, regulatory and managerial personnel in the future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for reinvestment in our business. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Among other factors contributing to the potential volatility of our stock price, additional sales of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Delaware law, our corporate charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. These provisions include: o the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without stockholder approval; o the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to five million shares of preferred stock with rights set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock; and o the elimination of the rights of stockholders to act by written consent. Each of these provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts. In May 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock on May 21, 2002. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of preferred stock on the terms stated in our rights plan. The rights will generally separate from the common stock and become exercisable if any person or group acquires or announces 37 a tender offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the consent of our board of directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our board of directors, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors. In addition, we are governed by provisions of Delaware law that may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and rights plan and under Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts that our stockholders would otherwise favor, or otherwise reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 