ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you make any investment decisions with respect to our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and could incur losses in the future, and we have a substantial accumulated deficit and a substantial working capital deficit, which means that we may not be able to continue operations. We have incurred substantial operating losses since inception, and could continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We must develop new client and customer relationships and substantially increase our revenue derived from improved products and additional value-added services to be provided. We have expended, and to the extent we have available financing, we intend to continue to expend, substantial resources to develop and improve our products, increase our value-added services and to market our products and services. These development and marketing expenses must be incurred well in advance of the recognition of revenue. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. A number of factors could increase our operating expenses, such as: 7 ·adapting corporate infrastructure and administrative resources to accommodate additional customers and future growth; ·developing products, distribution, marketing, and management for the broadest possible market; ·broadening customer technical support capabilities; ·developing or acquiring new products and associated technical infrastructure; ·developing additional indirect distribution partners; ·increased costs from third party service providers; ·improving data security features; and ·incurring legal fees and settlements associated with litigation and contingencies. To the extent that increases in operating expenses are not offset by increases in revenues, our operating losses will increase. We have historically incurred net losses from operations and we expect that we will continue to have negative cash flows as we implement our business plan. There can be no assurance that our continuing efforts to execute our business plan will be successful and that we will be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), which contemplates our continuation as a going concern. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we incurred operating losses of $5.3 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Net cash used by operations during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $4.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, we have an accumulated deficit of $245.2 million. We also have a working capital deficit of $75.9 million, of which $56.9 million is related to our financing instruments, including $31.4 million related to the fair value of warrants and those debentures that are recorded as hybrid financial instruments, and $25.5 million related to the amortized cost carrying value of certain of our debentures and the fair value of the associated derivative liabilities. Our working capital deficit includes a continuing purchase price guarantee obligation of $4.5 million associated with an acquisition of a business in 2006, which we subsequently sold in 2007. The items discussed above raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We currently do not have sufficient cash, or commitments for financing, to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. We will require additional financing in order to execute our operating plan and continue as a going concern. Our management’s plan is to secure adequate funding to bridge the commercialization of our patent licensing and barcode ecosystem businesses. We cannot predict whether this additional financing will be in the form of equity, debt, or another form and we may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event that these financing sources do not materialize, or that we are unsuccessful in increasing our revenues and profits, we may be unable to implement our current plans for expansion, repay our debt obligations as they become due or respond to competitive pressures, any of which circumstances would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. During 2011 and in prior years, YA Global Investments, L.P. (“YA Global”) has from time to time provided us with financing. Should YA Global choose not to further invest in the Company, or if we do not find alternative sources of financing to fund our operations or if we are unable to generate significant product revenues, we may not have sufficient funds to sustain our current operations. Our debenture obligations to YA Global currently mature on July 29, 2012. 8 We do not have any commitments to receive capital, and we need to raise additional funds in order to continue our operations. As discussed above, we currently do not have sufficient cash to sustain our operations for the next twelve months. During 2011, YA Global provided us with financing, totaling $4.4 million. YA Global has informed us that they intend to provide additional financing for our operations during 2012, and has provided us with an additional $1.3 million in financing as of March 31, 2012. If cash received from our customers and licensees is not sufficient to fund our operations, we will require additional capital financing from YA Global or from other sources in the future in order to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary, should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our management and Board of Directors may be unable to execute their plans to turn around the Company, grow our revenues and achieve profitability and positive cash flows, which could cause us to discontinue our operations. We could fail to attractor retain key personnel which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our management and Board of Directors are unable to attract and retain management and staff to execute our plans, then we may fail to grow our revenues, manage costs and achieve profitability and positive cash flows, which could cause us to discontinue our operations. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that may prevent us from being able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our business and operating results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control as of December 31, 2011. These matters and our efforts regarding remediation of these matters, as well as efforts regarding internal controls generally, are discussed in detail in Part II, Item 9A., Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, as our material weaknesses in our internal controls demonstrate, we cannot be certain that the remedial measures we have taken to date will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Remedying the material weaknesses that have been presently identified, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may identify in the future, could in the future require us to incur significant costs, hire additional personnel, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weaknesses, any failure to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We guaranteed the value of our common stock issued in connection with a prior-year acquisition which resulted in a material cash liability. Pursuant to the terms of a 2006 acquisition agreement, we were obligated to compensate the sellers in cash for the difference between the market price at the time the shares become saleable and the price at which the shares were valued for purposes of the acquisition agreement. At the time the shares became saleable in 2007, such obligation amounted to $16.2 million. During 2007, we issued 197,620,948 shares of our common stock, valued at $9.4 million, as partial settlement of the $16.2 million obligation, leaving a balance due of $6.8 million. Also during 2007, we made payments of $500,000 and negotiated a reduction of $1.8 million in the obligation, leaving a purchase price guarantee balance due of $4.5 million, the entire balance of which is currently due and payable. As of December 31, 2011, the parties to whom the balance is due have not come forward to claim or otherwise resolve the matter. 9 All of our assets are pledged to secure certain debt obligations, which if we fail to repay, could result in foreclosure upon substantially all of our assets. The repayment of our convertible debentures, issued to YA Global, is secured by substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2008, we received a waiver from YA Global, of several events of non-compliance related to the debentures and related financial instruments. On April 6, 2009, in connection with the amendment of our securities purchase agreement with YA Global, we were granted additional waivers. In the event we are unable to repay such secured convertible debentures, which mature on July 29, 2012, we could lose substantially all of our assets and be forced to cease our operations. Our future profitability depends on the timely introduction of new products and the acceptance of these new products in the marketplace, without which our business may be materially adversely affected. Rapid technological change and market development are typical for the industries we serve. Our future profitability will depend in large part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. If we fail to effectively launch new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors. Any inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully grow our product portfolio could materially and adversely affect our business. Existing shareholders will experience significant dilution when certain investors, such as YA Global, convert their preferred stock to common stock, convert outstanding convertible debentures to common stock, or when the investors exercise their warrants and receive common stock under the investment agreement with the investors. The issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to the conversion of our Series C and D convertible preferred stock, and the conversion of convertible debentures to common stock, or the exercise of warrants pursuant to our transactions with YA Global will have a dilutive impact on our shareholders. As a result, our net earnings per share could decrease in future periods, and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price, the more shares of common stock we will have to issue for the conversion of preferred stock or the convertible debentures. If our stock price is lower, then existing shareholders would experience greater dilution which may result in a decrease in such shareholders’ stock value. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Certain requirements regarding penny stocks may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker-dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor.. The potential market for “penny stocks” is further reduced by whether the Company can trade using the electronic trading system operated by DTC. 10 The DTC placed a “chill” on deposits of the Company’s common stock, which may impact an investor’s ability to trade in our common shares. In November 2011, the Depository Trust Company (“DTC”) placed a “chill” on deposits of our common stock. The “chill” does not affect our normal business operations. However, shareholders with internet brokerage accounts with firms such as Scottrade, TD Ameritrade or E*Trade may not be able to trade in our common shares through these internet brokers as usual. Since some shareholders may trade through these internet brokers which clear and settle through the DTC, we believe the “chill” may contribute to limitations on the ability for investors to purchase our shares. However, if an investor has an account with a full service broker, it will still clear and settle our stock manually, and the investor can buy and sell our stock as freely as usual without any DTC imposed restrictions. Due to the accounting treatment of certain convertible preferred stock, warrants and convertible debenture instruments issued by us, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material impact on our results of operations. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we reported a net loss of $849,000 and net income of $35.1 million, respectively, resulting primarily from adjustments recorded to reflect the change in fair value from the revaluation of warrants and the embedded conversion features in our Series C and D preferred stock, and convertible debentures. We adjust the carrying value of these derivative instruments to market at each balance sheet date. As a result, we could experience significant fluctuations in our earnings in future periods from such gains or losses, based on movements in our share price. As a result, our income from operations may be completely overshadowed by the impact of fluctuations in the fair value of our financial instruments, resulting solely from changes in the price of our Common Stock. Therefore, our financial statements are highly complex and may be difficult for all but the most financially sophisticated readers to comprehend. A majority of our assets are intangible assets, which will have little or no value if our operations are not profitable. At December 31, 2011, a majority of our total assets were intangible assets and goodwill, consisting primarily of rights related to our patents, other intellectual property, and the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of tangible assets acquired in our purchase of NeoMedia Europe. If our operations are not profitable, these assets will have little or no value, which would materially adversely affect the value of our stock and the ability of our shareholders to recoup their investments in our stock. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in a materially adverse impact on our results of operations. Ineffective marketing and sales of our products and services could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Many of our marketing efforts with respect to our products and technologies are in their infancy in the marketplace, and may not result in materially increased sales of these products and services. To penetrate the markets in which we compete, we expect that we will have to exert significant efforts to create awareness of, and demand for, our products and services. To the extent funding is available, we intend to continue to expand our sales and marketing resources as the market continues to mature. Our failure to further develop our sales and marketing capabilities and successfully market our products and services would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to compete effectively in markets where our competitors have more resources which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although the market is relatively new, it is already highly competitive and characterized by an increasing number of entrants that have introduced or developed products and services similar to those offered by us. We believe that competition will intensify and increase in the near future. Our target market is rapidly evolving and is subject to continuous technological change. As a result, our competitors may be better positioned to address these developments or may react more favorably to these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology, including patents and other intellectual property, and on the ability to protect proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we must conduct our operations without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We also intend to rely upon unpatented trade secrets and the know-how and expertise of our employees, as well as our patents. To protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, we rely primarily on a combination of the protections provided by applicable patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws as well as on confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to protect our unpatented proprietary rights, including requiring that our employees and third parties who are granted access to our proprietary technology enter into confidentiality agreements, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be sufficient to protect our rights against third parties. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire patented or unpatented technologies or products similar or superior to ours. We are exposed to product liability claims and an uninsured claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as on the value of our stock. Many of our projects are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. Any failure in a client’s information system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. We could, therefore, be subject to claims in connection with the products and services that we sell. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that: ·we have contractually limited our liability for such claims adequately or at all ·or that we would have sufficient resources to satisfy any liability resulting from any such claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We will not pay cash dividends and investors may have to sell their shares in order to realize their investment, which may not be easy for investors to do. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and marketing of our products and services. As a result, investors may have to sell their shares of common stock to realize their investment. Investors may encounter difficulty selling their shares of common stock. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. Some of the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then-current market price. On December 10, 1999, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholders’ rights plan and declared a non-taxable dividend of the right to acquire one-one hundredth of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, on each outstanding share of our common stock to shareholders of record on December 20, 1999 and each share of common stock issued thereafter until a pre-defined hostile takeover date. The shareholder rights plan was adopted as an anti-takeover measure, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”. The shareholder rights plan was designed to enable all shareholders not engaged in a hostile takeover attempt to receive fair and equal treatment in any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial or two-tiered tender offers, open market accumulations, and other hostile tactics to gain control of us. The shareholders’ rights plan was not adopted in response to any effort to acquire control of us at the time of adoption, however it may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in control of us. Certain shareholders, who were our founders, Charles W. Fritz, William E. Fritz and The Fritz Family Limited Partnership and their holdings, were exempted from the triggering provisions of our “poison pill” plan, as a result of the fact that, as of the plan’s adoption, their holdings might have otherwise triggered the “poison pill”. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue preferred stock, in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors, without further action by shareholders, and may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion, redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. 12 We are authorized to issue a total of 25 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The issuance of any preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock, and, therefore, could reduce the value of shares of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing, or rendering more costly an acquisition of us or a change in our control. In the future, there could be government regulations and legal uncertainties that could harm our business. Any new legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the internet and other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The growth and development of the market for mobile commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws to impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the internet, mobile telecommunications or other mobile services, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 