Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are inherent limitations in all control systems and failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. Our reserve estimates may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production data acquired subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated widely. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. We compete with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of our business. The competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and natural gas companies as well as numerous independents, including many that have significantly greater resources. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than the financial or personnel resources that our Company can permit. Our ability to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include: • our access to the capital necessary to drill wells and acquire properties; • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property; 17 Table of Contents • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property; and • our ability to access platforms and pipelines, and the locations of facilities used to produce and transport oil and natural gas production. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to effectively market production and may ultimately affect our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas depends on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the proximity of natural gas production to those natural gas pipelines; • the effects of inclement weather; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • state and federal regulations of oil and natural gas marketing; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. Because of these factors, we may be unable to market all of our oil and natural gas that we produce, including oil and natural gas that may be produced from the Bohai Bay properties in China. In addition, we may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas we produce. We may experience a temporary decline in revenues if we lose one of our significant customers. A significant customer as used herein is one that individually accounts for 10% or more of our total natural gas or oil sales. In 2006, we had one significant customer for our CFD Chinese crude oil: — CNOOC, and three significant customers for our natural gas production — Southern California Gas Company, J. Aron (Goldman Sachs), and Sempra Energy Trading. To the extent these or any other significant customer reduces the volume of its oil or natural gas purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. A decrease in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing natural gas prices for production situated in the Rocky Mountain Region of the United States, specifically, southwest Wyoming, as well as prevailing prices for crude oil produced in the Bohai Bay region of China. Energy commodity prices in general, and our regional prices in particular, have been historically highly volatile, and such high levels of volatility are expected to continue in the future. We cannot accurately predict the market prices that we will receive for the sale of our natural gas, condensate, or oil production. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as large fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and market uncertainty. These factors include but are not limited to weather conditions in the United States, the condition of the United States economy, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources and transportation interruption. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. 18 Table of Contents Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. A price decrease may more adversely affect the price received for our Wyoming production than production in other U.S. regions. Natural gas prices in the southwest Wyoming region are critical to our business. The market price for this natural gas differs from the market indices for natural gas in the Gulf Coast region of the United States due potentially to insufficient pipeline capacity and/or low demand during certain months of the year for natural gas in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Therefore, a price decrease may more adversely affect the price received for our Wyoming production than production in the other U.S. regions. There have been, from time to time, numerous proposed pipeline projects, including the Rockies Express Pipeline, that have been announced to transport Rockies’ and Wyoming natural gas production to markets. There can be no assurance that such infrastructures will be built or that if built, they would prevent large basis differentials from occurring in the future. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our production. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require that we acquire permits before commencing drilling; • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and • require governmental approval of the overall development plan prior to the start of development of fields in China. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but do not maintain insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. A significant percentage of our United States operations are conducted on federal lands. These operations are subject to a variety of on-site security regulations as well as other permits and authorizations issued by the BLM, the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality and other federal agencies. A portion of our acreage is affected by winter lease stipulations that prohibit exploration, drilling and completing activities generally from November 15th to April 30th, but allow production activities all year round. To drill wells in Wyoming, we are required to file an Application for Permit to Drill with the WOGCC. Drilling on acreage controlled by the federal government requires the filing of a similar application with the BLM. These permitting requirements may adversely affect our ability to complete our drilling program at the cost and in the time period anticipated. On large-scale projects, lessees may be required to perform an EIS to assess the environmental impact of potential development, which can delay project implementation and/or result in the imposition of environmental restrictions that could have a material impact on cost or scope. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to develop our existing reserves and to discover new oil and gas reserves. Our ability to continue exploration and development of our properties and to replace reserves may be dependent upon our ability to continue to raise significant additional financing, including debt financing or obtain other potential arrangements with industry partners in lieu of raising financing. Any arrangements that may be entered into could be expensive to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital in light of factors such as the market demand for our securities, the state of financial markets for independent oil and gas companies (including the markets for debt), oil and natural gas prices and general market conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our capital budget. We expect to continue using our bank credit facility to borrow funds to supplement our available cash flow. The amount we may borrow under the credit facility may not exceed a borrowing base determined by the lenders based on their projections of our future production, future production costs and taxes, commodity prices and other factors. We cannot control the assumptions the lenders use to calculate the borrowing base. The lenders may, without our consent, adjust the borrowing base at any time. If our borrowings under the credit facility exceed the borrowing base, the lenders may require that we repay the excess borrowing. If this occurred, we may have to sell assets or seek financing from other sources. We can make no assurances that we would be successful in selling assets or arranging substitute financing. For a description of the bank credit facility and its principal terms and conditions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our operations may be interrupted by severe weather or drilling restrictions, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region. Our operations are conducted primarily in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. The weather in this area can be extreme and can cause interruption in our exploration and production operations. Severe weather can result in damage to our facilities entailing longer operational interruptions and significant capital investment. Likewise, our Rocky Mountain operations are subject to disruption from winter storms and severe cold, which can limit operations involving fluids and impair access to our facilities. A portion of our acreage is affected by winter lease stipulations that prohibit drilling and completing activities from November 15th to April 30th, but allow production activities all year round. Our focus on exploration projects increases the risks inherent in our oil and gas activities. We have historically invested a significant portion of our capital budget in drilling exploratory wells in search of unproved oil and gas reserves. We cannot be certain that these exploratory wells will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investments. To increase the chances for exploratory success, we often invest in seismic or other geoscience data to assist us in identifying potential drilling objectives. Additionally, the cost of drilling, completing and testing exploratory wells is often uncertain at the time of our initial investment. Depending on complications encountered while drilling, the final cost of the well may significantly exceed our original estimate. We use the full cost method of accounting for exploration and development activities as defined by the SEC. Under this method of accounting, the costs of unsuccessful, as well as successful, exploration and development activities are capitalized as properties and equipment and are then depleted using the unit of production method based on our proved reserves. Unless we are able to replace reserves which we have produced, our cash flows and production will decrease over time. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and production will decline. We can give no assurance that we will be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. 20 Table of Contents We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosion, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events with respect to any property we own or operate (in whole or in part) could have a material adverse impact on us. We and the operators of our properties maintain insurance in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be reasonable. However, insurance coverage is not always economically feasible and is not obtained to cover all types of operational risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact our results of operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with drilling for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas. These risks include the necessity of spending large amounts of money for identification and acquisition of properties and for drilling and completion of wells. In the drilling of exploratory or development wells, failures and losses may occur before any deposits of oil or natural gas are found. The presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, blow-outs or accidents may cause such activity to be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our investment in such activity. If oil or natural gas is encountered, there can be no assurance that it can be produced in quantities sufficient to justify the cost of continuing such operations or that it can be marketed satisfactorily. Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. This report includes certain descriptions of our future drilling plans with respect to our prospects. A prospect is an area which our geoscientists have identified what they believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of hydrocarbons. Our prospects are in various stages of review. Whether or not we ultimately drill a prospect depends on the following factors: • receipt of additional seismic data or reprocessing of existing data; • material changes in oil or natural gas prices; • the costs and availability of drilling equipment; • success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; • availability and cost of capital; • changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; • the approval of partners to participate in the drilling or, in the case of CNOOC, approval of expenditures for budget purposes; • our ability to attract other industry partners to acquire a portion of the working interest to reduce exposure to costs and drilling risks; • decisions of our joint working interest owners; and • the BLM’s interpretation of an EIS and the results of the permitting process. We will continue to gather data about our prospects, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that a prospect should not be pursued at all. 21 Table of Contents If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. A separate cost center is maintained for expenditures applicable to each country in which we conduct exploration and/or production activities. Under such method, the net book value of properties on a country-by-country basis, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. In calculating discounted future net revenues, oil and natural gas prices in effect at the time of the calculation are held constant, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. We are not the operator, and have limited influence over the operations, of our Bohai Bay properties. Because we are not the operator and hold a minority interest, we cannot control the pace of exploration or development in the Bohai Bay properties or major decisions affecting the drilling of wells or the plan for development and production, although contract provisions give the Company certain consent rights in some matters. The operator’s influence over these matters can affect the pace at which we spend money on this project. If the operator were to shift its focus from this project, the pace of development could slow down or stop altogether. On the other hand, if the operator were to decide to accelerate development of this project, we could be required to fund our share of costs at a faster pace than anticipated, which might exceed our ability to raise funds. If, because of this, we were unable to pay our share of costs, we could lose or be forced to sell our interest in the Bohai Bay properties or be forced to not participate in the exploration or development of specific prospects or fields, potentially diminishing the value of our Bohai Bay assets. Political, economic or legal factors associated with our ownership of properties in China could impact our results of operations. Ownership of property interests and production operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of expropriation, nationalization, war or insurrections; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities and quasi-governmental agencies; • change in laws and policies governing operations of foreign based companies; • labor problems; • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over its international operations; and • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Tensions between China and its neighbors or various western countries, regional political or military disruption, changes in internal Chinese leadership, social or political disruptions within China, a downturn in the Chinese economy, or a change in Chinese laws or attitudes toward foreign investment could make China an unfavorable environment in which to invest. Although all the foreign interest owners in the Bohai Bay properties have the right to sell production in the world market, the regulation of the concession by China, and the likely participation by CNOOC as a large working interest owner, make Chinese internal and external affairs important to the investment in the Bohai Bay property. If any of these negative events were to occur, it could lead to a decision that there is an intolerable level of risk in continuing with the investment, or we may be unable to attract equity investors or lenders, or satisfy any then existing lenders. 22 Table of Contents In the event of a dispute arising from our foreign operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States or a potentially more favorable country. In addition, our Chinese PSC terminates after 15-years of production, unless extended as provided for, which may be prior to the end of the productive life of the fields. Our operations in China have special operational risks that may negatively affect the value of those assets. Offshore operations, such as our Bohai Bay properties, are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and/or loss from storms or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could result in financial losses or failures. China has many regulations similar to those addressed in Item 1, Environmental Regulation, that may expose us to liability. Offshore projects, like the China field developments, are typically large, complex construction projects that are potentially subject to delays which may cause delays in achieving production and profitability. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including without limitation, statements in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding our financial position, estimated quantities and net present values of reserves, business strategy, plans and objectives of the Company’s management for future operations, covenant compliance and those statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “target”, “goal”, “plans”, “objective”, “should”, or similar expressions or variations on such expressions are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurances that the assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: • our oil and natural gas reserve quantities, and the discounted present value of those reserves; • the amount and nature of our capital expenditures; • drilling of wells; • the timing and amount of future production and operating costs; • business strategies and plans of management; and • prospect development and property acquisitions. Some of the risks which could affect our future results and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: • general economic conditions; • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; • the uncertainty of estimates of oil and natural gas reserves; • the impact of competition; • the availability and cost of seismic, drilling and other equipment; • operating hazards inherent in the explorations for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered during the explorations for and production of oil and natural gas; 23 Table of Contents • difficulties encountered in delivering oil and natural gas to commercial markets; • changes in customer demand and producers’ supply; • the uncertainty of our ability to attract capital; • compliance with, or the effect of changes in, the extensive governmental regulations regarding the oil and natural gas business; • actions of operators of our oil and natural gas properties; and • weather conditions. The information contained in this report, including the information set forth under the heading “Risk Factors,” identifies additional factors that could affect our operating results and performance. We urge you to carefully consider these factors and the other cautionary statements in this report. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we have no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 