Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. Before making an investment, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. The Corporation is Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Although our management believes it has implemented strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial and prolonged change in market interest rates could adversely affect our operating results. The Corporation is Subject to Lending Risk Risks associated with lending activities include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and economic conditions, which may adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, including an impact on the value of associated collateral. Various laws and regulations also affect our lending activities, and failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to enforcement actions and civil money penalties. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 71.7% of our loan and lease portfolio consisted of commercial, industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans and leases, which are generally perceived as having more risk of default than residential real estate and consumer loans. An increase in non-performing loans and leases could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans and leases, an increase in the provision for possible loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan and lease charge-offs, as described below. The Corporation’s Allowance for Possible Loan and Lease Losses May be Insufficient An allowance for possible loan and lease losses, a reserve established through a provision for possible loan and lease losses charged to expense, represents management’s best estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans and leases. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan and lease portfolio quality, unidentified losses inherent in the current loan and lease portfolio, and present economic, political and regulatory conditions. Although we evaluate every loan and lease we make against our underwriting criteria, we may experience losses due to factors beyond our control, which may result in our allowance for loan and lease losses being insufficient to absorb actual loan and lease losses. The Corporation is Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated with Lending Activities Our policies and procedures require environmental factors to be considered during the loan application process. An environmental review is performed before initiating any commercial foreclosure action; these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Possible remediation costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition. 5 Table of Contents The Corporation’s Profitability is Affected by Economic Conditions in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Unlike larger national or other regional banks that operate in large geographies, the Corporation provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Bucks, Montgomery, and Chester counties; however, we can be affected by a decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, or other international or domestic occurrences that could impact local economic conditions, including changes in securities markets. The Corporation Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different financial services competitors, including non-bank competitors. Our future growth and ability to develop and maintain long-term customer relationships is contingent upon our ability to continually develop high levels of customer satisfaction based on our strategic initiatives to provide top quality service in a highly ethical and safe and sound environment. Failure to successfully manage risks associated with the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business operations and financial condition. The Corporation is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision Univest and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal supervision and regulation which could result in violations or sanctions from regulatory agencies. While we have policies and procedures in place designed to prevent such violations, there can be no assurance such violations will not occur. Any substantial changes to applicable laws or regulations could also subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and inhibit our ability to compete effectively with other financial services providers. The Corporation’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives comply with appropriate regulatory guidance; any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Relies on Dividends from its Subsidiaries for Most of its Business The Corporation is a financial holding company and its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries from which the Corporation receives dividends. The ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to legal and regulatory limitations, profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance future dividend payments will be generated from the subsidiaries or that the Corporation will have adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Corporation’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value The Corporation may use its common stock and cash or other liquid assets or incur debt to acquire other companies that are culturally similar or make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. The Corporation regularly evaluates acquisition opportunities. Future acquisition could be material to the Corporation; the degree of success achieved in such transactions could have a material effect on the value of the Corporation’s common stock. The Corporation May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Attracting and retaining key people is critical to the Corporation’s success, and difficulty finding qualified people could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s business due to the lack of required 6 Table of Contents skill sets and years of industry experience. Management is cognizant of these risks and succession planning is built into the long-range strategic planning process. The Corporation does not currently have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of its senior officers. The Corporation’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption, or breach in our security systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures will not occur and, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. As a result, the occurrence of any such failures, interruptions, or breaches in security could expose the Corporation to reputation risk, civil litigation, regulatory scrutiny, and possible financial liability which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Corporation Continually Encounters Technological Change The Corporation’s future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively embrace technology efficiencies to better serve customers and reduce costs. Failure to keep pace with technological change could potentially have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s business operations and financial condition. The Corporation is Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility Any financial or reputation damage due to customer claims and other legal action, whether founded or unfounded, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operation if such claims are not resolved in a favorable manner. The Long-term Economic Effects of External Events Could Impact the Corporation Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s ability to conduct business. Management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures which are expected to mitigate events related to natural or man-made disasters; however, the impact of an overall economic decline could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition. The Corporation’s Stock Price Can be Volatile The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, general market fluctuations, industry factors, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, and general economic and political conditions, such as economic slowdowns or recessions. These factors could cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Corporation’s common stock is listed for trading in the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “UVSP”; the trading volume has historically been less than that of larger financial service companies. An Investment in the Corporation’s Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit The Corporation’s common stock is not a bank deposit, is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other deposit insurance fund, and is subject to investment risk, including the loss of some or all of your investment. The Corporation’s common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. Anti-takeover Effect of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Shareholders Rights Plan Certain provisions in the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and the Stock Purchase Rights Plan, including federal banking laws and regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Corporation’s shareholders. 7 Table of Contents Future Changes in Laws and Regulations The Corporation is subject to changes in federal and state tax laws, as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles, and governmental economic and monetary policies. We cannot predict whether any of these changes or other supervisory actions may adversely and materially affect the Corporation’s business and profitability. Earnings Effect from General Business and Economic Conditions Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions; these conditions include long- and short-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Corporation operates, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. Dependence on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information about Customers and Counterparties The Corporation may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties in determining whether to enter into credit-related or other transactions. Reliance on any inaccurate or misleading financial information could potentially have an adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and financial condition. Consumers May Decide Not to Use Banks to Complete Their Financial Transactions The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Univest Corporation may receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that Univest Corporation received not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this report relates. 