RISK FACTORS This section addresses those risks to the Group’s business that are considered material by the Directors. These risks should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties: some risks are not yet known and some that are not currently considered material could later turn out to be material. All of these risks could materially adversely affect the Group, its income, operating profits, earnings, net assets, liquidity, funding and/or capital resources and its ability to meet any targets or objectives. Ireland: The Group’s businesses are subject to risks arising from general and sector specific economic conditions in Ireland, which have materially adversely affected the Group’s earnings and are likely to continue to affect its results, financial condition and prospects. As at December 31, 2009, 63% of the Group’s total assets were located in Ireland and during the 9 month period ended December 31, 2009, approximately 64% of its total income was generated in Ireland. Ireland is facing an extremely challenging economic period and is only recently emerging from recession. Unemployment has increased, with the consensus forecasting a rise to 13.6% by the end of 2010 (Source: Reuters Poll, March 2010). The property market has suffered a very significant decline, with average national house prices in Ireland falling by 18.5% in 2009 and 9.1% in 2008 (Source: Permanent TSB/ERSI House Price Index) and commercial property prices falling by 55.6% between September 2007 and December 2009 (Source: IPD Irish Commercial Property Index). Following heavy reliance on construction and property-related activity for economic growth, the Irish economy is currently experiencing a severe contraction. Irish GDP has contracted by 7.1% for the 2009 calendar year (Source: CSO, Quarterly National Accounts, Q4 2009). The Government finances show a significant deficit with a revised estimated General Government Balance (“GGB”) deficit of 11.7% of GDP in 2009 compared to a deficit of 7.2% of GDP in 2008 and a surplus of 0.3% of GDP in 2007 (Source: Department of Finance Monthly Economic Bulletin, April 2010). There has also been a significant fiscal adjustment in Ireland implemented by the Government equivalent to 7.5% of GDP in 2009 through a combination of increased taxes and a reduction in Government spending (Source: Department of Finance). Negative macroeconomic conditions in Ireland are evident in a decline in demand for business products and services, weak business and consumer confidence, lower personal expenditure and consumption, increases in the debt service burden of consumers and businesses and limitations on the general availability of credit. These factors have significantly affected, and will continue to affect, the behaviour of the Group’s customers and, by extension, the demand for, and supply of, the Group’s products and services, which in turn will affect the Group’s financial condition and results. In addition, higher unemployment, reduced corporate profitability, and increased corporate and personal insolvency rates have and will continue to reduce borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Due to the fall in Irish residential and commercial property prices, the value of collateral on many of the Group’s loans has reduced and write-downs and impairment charges have significantly increased. These conditions have already materially adversely affected the Group, have exerted downward pressure on share prices, liquidity and availability of credit for financial institutions, including the Group, and other corporations and have left the Irish banking system facing serious structural and funding issues. If these economic conditions continue or worsen, or if the Irish economy recovers at a slower rate than anticipated, the Group may experience further reductions in business activity, increased funding costs, decreased asset values, additional write-downs and impairment charges with consequent adverse effects on profitability and financial condition. Further downgrades to the Irish sovereign ratings or outlook could impair the Group’s access to funding, trigger additional collateral requirements and weaken its competitive position. The sovereign rating of Ireland has a number of effects on the Irish banking sector as a whole. As at June 7, 2010, the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Form 20-F, the long-term (outlook) / short-term (outlook) sovereign credit ratings for Ireland were AA(negative outlook) / A-1+ from Standard & Poor’s, Aa1(negative outlook) / P-1 from Moody’s Investor Service, AA- (stable) / F1+ from Fitch Ratings and AA(negative) / A-1+ from Ratings and Investment Information Inc. (R+I). A downgrade would be likely to increase the cost of financing the Irish public debt, which could result in increased taxation, lower Government spending and consequently an adverse 12 Table of Contents effect on Irish economic conditions. As the guarantor of certain liabilities of the Group under the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and under the ELG Scheme, a downgrade is also likely to impact adversely on the Group’s credit rating and cost of funding for certain securities guaranteed under these schemes and could result in the withdrawal of deposits from the Group. In addition, as a Participating Institution in NAMA, the Group receives Government guaranteed bonds and non-guaranteed subordinated bonds issued by NAMA as consideration for the transfer of assets to NAMA. In the normal course of business, the Group also has holdings in Government bonds separate from those issued under NAMA. A downgrade or series of downgrades in the rating of the Government debt or the Government guaranteed bonds could adversely impact the extent to which the Group can use these bonds as collateral for the purposes of accessing the liquidity provision operations offered by Monetary Authorities or secured borrowing from wholesale markets, for example if these bonds ceased to meet the eligibility criteria set by Monetary Authorities (see the risk factor entitled “Constraints on liquidity, lack of availability of funding and increased cost of funding could materially adversely affect the Group’s business”). As such, a downgrade or series of downgrades in the sovereign rating of Ireland may have a systemic effect on the Irish banking sector, may have adverse effects for the Irish economy and may also affect the marketability of the Government guaranteed bonds held by the Group and the Group’s ability to sell them, or make it more difficult and/or more expensive for the Group to access private sources of capital and funding. In addition to Ireland, the Group’s businesses are subject to inherent risks arising from general and sector specific economic conditions in other countries to which the Group has an exposure, particularly in the United Kingdom. Adverse developments, such as the recent deterioration in general economic conditions and in the global financial markets, have already materially adversely affected the Group’s earnings and are likely to continue to affect its results, financial condition and prospects. The global financial system began to experience difficulties in mid-2007. This resulted in severe dislocation of financial markets around the world, significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and unprecedented levels of illiquidity in capital markets. Uncertainty surrounds the pace and scale of global economic recovery and conditions could deteriorate further as fiscal and monetary supports are withdrawn. The financial crisis and the global recession have had a negative impact on general and sector specific conditions in other jurisdictions outside Ireland in which the Group operates, including the United Kingdom and the United States. As has occurred in Ireland, this has resulted in a decline in demand for business products and services, weak business and consumer confidence, lower personal expenditure and consumption, increases in the debt service burden of consumers and businesses and limitations on the general availability of credit. These factors have significantly affected, and will continue to affect, the Group’s customers and, by extension, the demand for, and supply of, the Group’s products and services and in turn the Group’s financial condition and results. In addition, higher unemployment, reduced corporate profitability and increased corporate and personal insolvency rates in other jurisdictions outside Ireland, may reduce borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Specifically in relation to the United Kingdom, GDP contracted by 4.9% in 2009 (Source: Office for National Statistics, Output, Income And Expenditure, Quarter 4 2009) and grew by 0.2% on a quarter by quarter basis in the first quarter of 2010 (Source: Office for National Statistics, Statistical Bulletin, Q1 2010). The consensus view (Source: Reuters Consensus Forecast, March 2010) is that the UK economy will grow at a pace of 1.2% in 2010 and 2.3% in 2011, although uncertainty remains on the likely impact on the economy of the pace of fiscal tightening required to reduce the UK national budget deficit. In the UK property sector after peaking in October 2007, residential house prices fell steadily over the period to February 2009 with the cumulative decline over this period amounting to 19.5% (Source: Nationwide Index). The commercial property market experienced a 45% fall in capital values from the peak in quarter two of 2007 to trough in quarter two of 2009 (Source: IPD). While these markets have recovered somewhat and residential house prices started to rise in Spring 2009 with prices rising by an annualised 9.0% to March 2010 (Source: Nationwide Index), so that prices in March 2010 were 11.5% below their peak and growth in commercial property capital values of 8.1% were recorded in the final quarter of 2009, significant uncertainty remains around the pace and scale of recovery. This reduction in the value of residential and commercial property has reduced the value of collateral on many of the Group’s loans, leading to significantly increased write-downs and impairment charges. 13 Table of Contents The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties the Group faces as a result of the global economic outlook are difficult to predict in view of the severity of the global recession, uncertainty regarding the economic impact of the withdrawal, and the timing of such withdrawal, of the various governmental fiscal and monetary supports by Government agencies and Monetary Authorities and the fact that many of these risks are outside the Group’s control. If these levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, the Group may experience further reductions in business activity, increased funding costs, decreased asset values, additional write-downs and impairment charges with consequent adverse effects on profitability and financial condition. Moreover the worsening of the global economic environment could impact on one or more countries that are significant to the Group’s business and could further adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Decreases in the credit quality of the Group’s borrowers and counterparties, as well as increased difficulties in relation to the recoverability of loans and other amounts due from such borrowers and counterparties, have resulted in increases, and could result in further significant increases, in the Group’s impaired loans and impairment charges. Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or counterparty will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into or that any pledged collateral does not fully cover the lender’s claims. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of both secured and unsecured loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group’s businesses. The outlook for the global economy remains uncertain. In particular, Ireland’s recent significant reliance on the construction and property industry has exacerbated the impact of Ireland’s economic recession. The consensus expectation is that any recovery in the Irish economy will take longer than that of the European Union as a whole. Adverse changes in the credit quality or behaviour of the Group’s borrowers, counterparties and their guarantors, including sovereign counterparties, or adverse changes arising from a general deterioration in global economic conditions or systemic risks in the financial systems, have reduced, and are expected to continue to reduce, the recoverability and value of the Group’s assets. These circumstances have caused a significant increase in, and could cause further significant increases in, impaired loans and impairment charges. The Group’s primary markets are Ireland and the United Kingdom. At December 31, 2009, 47% of the Group’s loans and advances to customers (including loans held for sale to NAMA) were in Ireland, 45% were in the United Kingdom and 8% were in other jurisdictions (Source: unaudited internal management information). Exposures originated and managed in Ireland and the United Kingdom represent a material concentration of credit risk. The Group has exposures to residential mortgages and to a range of corporate customers in different sectors, in particular exposures to investors in commercial property and residential property. Developers of commercial and residential property, particularly in Ireland, are facing especially challenging market conditions and commercial property prices have shown significant declines over the past two and a half years (see further details below under the risk factor “The Group is exposed to declining property values and a deterioration in the performance of the residential and commercial property markets, particularly in Ireland and the United Kingdom”). Beyond this sector, economic and financial conditions have deteriorated more broadly. Interest rates may rise in the Group’s main markets, which may lead to, amongst other things, further declines in values of collateral and investments, increasing unemployment, weakening consumer and corporate spending, declining corporate profitability, declining equity markets and bond markets and an increase in corporate insolvencies. As further detailed below (see the risk factor “The Group is exposed to declining property values and a deterioration in the performance of the residential and commercial property markets, particularly in Ireland and the United Kingdom”), residential property prices continue to be under severe pressure in Ireland. Many borrowers in Ireland and the United Kingdom borrow on short-term fixed or discounted floating rates and when such rates expire the continued reduced supply and stricter terms of lending together with the potential for higher borrowing rates has led, and may continue to lead, to higher loan default rates. In spite of the United Kingdom economy’s recent improvement, unemployment rates could still increase and lead to higher loan default rates in the United Kingdom in the future. According to Central Statistics Office data, the standardised unemployment rate in March 2010 in Ireland was 13.4% (Source: CSO Live Register, March 2010). In Ireland, the consensus expectation is that the unemployment rate will peak at approximately 13.6% (Source: Reuters Poll, March 2010). Increased 14 Table of Contents unemployment would also be likely to result in higher loan default rates. These developments could materially adversely impact the Group’s ability to recover on these loans or lead to significant write-downs of investments. The Group has also been exposed to increased counterparty risk as a result of financial institution and corporate failures and nationalisations and will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if counterparty financial institutions or other corporate borrowers fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. Increased volatility in financial markets has resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced asset valuations which could further adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Significant falls in perceived or actual asset values have resulted from previous market events. Increased volatility and further dislocation affecting certain financial markets and asset classes could further impact the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the future these factors could have an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in the Group’s available for sale (“AFS”), trading portfolios and assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss. In addition, any further deterioration in the performance of the assets in Bank of Ireland’s AFS portfolio could lead to additional impairment losses. The AFS portfolio accounted for 12% of total Group assets as at December 31, 2009. The Group is exposed to declining property values and a deterioration in the performance of the residential and commercial property markets, particularly in Ireland and the United Kingdom. As at December 31, 2009, total loans and advances to customers (pre-impairment provisions and excluding assets held for sale to NAMA) were approximately €122.4 billion and included €61 billion of residential mortgages (of which €29 billion were in Ireland and €32 billion in the United Kingdom) and €24 billion of property and construction lending (of which €12 billion was in Ireland, €10 billion in the United Kingdom and €2 billion in the rest of the world). In respect of the property and construction lending, €21 billion was investment property lending with the remaining €3 billion being exposure to landbank and development lending. Declining residential and commercial property prices have led to a significant slowdown in the construction sector in Ireland and the United Kingdom. Economic and other factors, including general deterioration in the economy and dislocation of the financial system, may lead to further contraction in the residential mortgage and commercial lending market and further decreases in residential and commercial property prices. The Group has a material exposure to residential mortgages. 32% of the mortgages provided by the Group are to buy-to-let investors in Ireland and the United Kingdom (40% in Ireland and 60% in the United Kingdom). An excess supply of rental property or falls in rental demand could impact buy-to-let borrowers’ income and ability to service the loans. Borrowers for residential and buy-to-let properties may also have increased difficulties in servicing loans as a result of lower rental demand because capital growth will not be available to borrowers to offset any income losses. 8% of the total mortgage book of the Group was self- certified loans in the United Kingdom. The information submitted by borrowers in respect of these self-certified loans may have been incomplete or inaccurate and, as such, the Group may have incorrectly assessed the credit quality, willingness or ability of borrowers to repay these loans, which could result in higher than anticipated rates of arrears. Income verification on these self-certified loans depends on disclosures by borrowers of their income and may be subject to higher rates of arrears as a result of income expectations which are no longer achievable, reflecting the economic downturn which, when combined with reduced property values, may result in higher loan loss levels than for other mortgage types. These effects could be exacerbated if there is an increase in the rates of interest that are payable by borrowers generally. The Group has exposure to a range of corporate customers in different sectors, in particular exposures to investors in the commercial and residential property sectors. Economic conditions have deteriorated and interest rates may rise in the Group’s main markets which may lead to, amongst other things, further declines in values of collateral and investments, increasing unemployment, weakening consumer and corporate spending, declining corporate profitability and an increase in corporate insolvencies. These developments could materially adversely impact the Group’s ability to recover the loans and interest in respect of these commercial property and residential lending portfolios or lead to significant write-downs of investments. 15 Table of Contents The announcement of the establishment of NAMA has had an impact on the liquidity of property assets in Ireland. The volume of commercial property transactions, in particular, is currently at very low levels as market participants await further clarity as to what effects NAMA’s operations will have on the property market. The transfer of assets to NAMA could have further adverse consequences for the liquidity and value of property assets in Ireland, as NAMA is ultimately expected to control a significant quantum of property assets or property loans giving it a significant market presence. The discount on assets transferred to NAMA may have a material adverse impact on the values and liquidity of property generally, thereby reducing the value of collateral on many of the Group’s loans and thereby significantly increasing the rate of write-downs and/or impairment charges. Developers of commercial and residential property, particularly in Ireland, are facing especially challenging market conditions. As discussed in the risk factor “Ireland: The Group’s businesses are subject to risks arising from general and sector specific economic conditions in Ireland, which have materially adversely affected the Group’s earnings and are likely to continue to affect its results, financial condition and prospects” the property market has suffered a very significant decline, with average house prices in Ireland falling by 18.5% in 2009 and 9.1% in 2008 (Source: Permanent TSB/ERSI House Price Index) and commercial property prices falling by 55.6% between September 2007 and December 2009 (Source: IPD Irish Commercial Property Index). Residential property supply and demand has fallen sharply. Approximately 12,000 private new houses were completed in Ireland in the first half of 2009, from over 88,000 at the peak in 2006 (Source: Department of the Environment, Heritage and Local Government) and the number of new mortgages has fallen from over 110,000 in 2006 to approximately 25,000 in 2009 (Source: Irish Banking Federation/PwC Mortgage Market Profile). Development loans, in particular, become more difficult to service in times of negative economic growth because the success of development investment is closely linked to an increase in overall demand for property in the economy and to positive economic growth. The overhang of unsold stock of completed residential units has caused an increase in, and may cause further increases in, the number of impaired development loans and in impairment charges. It has been, and may continue to be, uneconomic to develop land purchased and intended to be developed, which has the effect of reducing the value of collateral on many of the Group’s landbank and development loans and significantly increasing the rate of write-downs and impairment charges. If the current economic downturn in Ireland continues, with further falls in house prices and increases in unemployment, the Group’s commercial property and residential mortgage lending portfolios may be exposed to further substantial increases in impairment charges, which could materially affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The effects of declining property values and any increases to interest rates payable by borrowers in the wider economy may also contribute to higher default rates and impairment losses on non-property commercial and consumer loans, which could materially adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Market risks, including interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, bond and equity price risk and other market risks, could materially adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Market risk is the potential adverse change in the Group’s earnings or the value of its net assets arising principally from movements in, and increased volatility of, interest rates, bond and equity prices, exchange rates and other market prices. The Group’s average one day interest rate Trading Book Value at Risk (“VaR”) in the nine month period ended December 31, 2009 was €2.1 million. The major part of the Group’s proprietary risk is interest rate risk in the euro, Sterling and US dollar markets. Changes in interest rate or bond price levels in these or other markets where the Group holds proprietary risk positions may impact the value of assets, the value of liabilities or the margin received by the Group. The terms of existing loan commitments or facilities may mean that the Group is restricted in its ability to increase interest rates charged to customers in response to changes in interest rates that affect the costs of wholesale borrowing. The Group is exposed to structural interest rate and structural foreign exchange risk. Structural interest rate risk arises from the existence of non-interest bearing assets and liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet. These consist mainly of non-interest bearing current accounts plus equity less fixed assets. Due to this structural risk exposure, changes in interest rates and the volatility of such changes may affect the net assets and earnings reported by the Group. Structural foreign exchange risk is defined as an entity’s non-trading net asset position in an entity’s non- 16 Table of Contents euro currencies. Structural foreign exchange risk arises substantially from the Group’s net investment in its subsidiaries which report in Sterling. The Group’s Sterling net assets account for 59% of the total Group net assets. Changes in foreign exchange rates affect the euro value of assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. Such changes and the degree of volatility of such changes may affect the net assets and earnings reported by the Group. A 10% appreciation of the euro against Sterling and the US Dollar at December 31, 2009 would have resulted in a loss in reserves of €399 million. The Group is also exposed to the effect of changes in exchange rates on the translation value of its non-euro earnings, particularly its Sterling and US Dollar earnings. Substantial changes in interest or foreign exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. While the Group has no significant direct exposure to equity markets (due to the fact that it does not hold proprietary equity investment or trading portfolios), it is indirectly exposed to equity markets through its asset management, custody, fund administration, private banking and life assurance businesses and its pension funds. In these business areas, equity investment is held on behalf of, or backs liabilities to, customers of the Group but revenue from these business areas is dependent on amongst other things, the market value of held equity investments. Changes in equity prices and the degree of volatility with respect thereto may affect the net assets and earnings reported by the Group. Constraints on liquidity, lack of availability of funding and increased cost of funding could materially adversely affect the Group’s business. Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including funding commitments and deposit withdrawals, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by an over-reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, securitisations and covered bonds), changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as disruption in the functioning of markets and major events or disasters of global significance. From mid-2007, credit markets worldwide experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and term funding. During this time, perception of counterparty risk between banks and the perception of the impact of sovereign credit risk on banks has also increased significantly. This increase in perceived counterparty risk led to reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banking groups, the Group’s access to traditional sources of liquidity has been restricted. The availability of sources of liquidity on terms acceptable to the Group has been adversely impacted. The disruption in the functioning of funding markets led to the introduction of a range of government guarantee and liquidity assistance schemes in a number of countries, including Ireland. Despite recent improvements in liquidity conditions and wholesale markets, the perception of counterparty and country risk has remained at elevated levels. Furthermore, despite the introduction of the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and the ELG Scheme, the terms on which such funding is available are more onerous and expensive than was the case prior to mid-2007. Should the global economy and the global financial system deteriorate further, the Group’s cost of funding may rise and access to liquidity may be further constrained. The Group qualifies for access to the liquidity operations offered by Monetary Authorities for so long as it meets certain eligibility criteria relating to collateral which it can provide to Monetary Authorities. The Group holds a significant pool of contingent liquidity collateral, comprised of debt securities and other eligible collateral which is capable of being pledged against borrowings from Monetary Authorities. If the quality of the Group’s collateral fundamentally deteriorates, or if Monetary Authorities materially change eligibility criteria, the Group’s ability to access Monetary Authorities’ liquidity operations may become less flexible which could adversely affect the Group. The quality of the Group’s collateral may also be influenced by the sovereign rating of Ireland (see the risk factor “Further downgrades to the Irish sovereign ratings or outlook could impair the Group’s access to funding, trigger additional collateral requirements and weaken its competitive position” for further information). 17 Table of Contents The Group relies on customer deposits to fund a considerable portion of its loan portfolio, the ongoing availability of which is sensitive to factors outside the Group’s control. Loss of consumer confidence in the Group’s business or in banking businesses generally, among other things, could result in unexpectedly high levels of customer deposit withdrawals, which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and liquidity prospects. The Group’s largest single source of funding is customer deposits, which represented approximately 50% of total Group funding at December 31, 2009. Medium-term growth in the Group’s lending activities will depend, in part, on the availability of customer deposits on appropriate terms, for which there is increasing competition. The Group has sought to increase its reliance on customer deposits in the recent past given the challenges in accessing wholesale funding. Increases in the cost of customer deposits will affect the Group’s margins and profit, while a lack of availability of such deposit funding could affect the Group’s future growth. The ongoing availability of these deposits to fund the Group’s loan portfolio is subject to potential changes in certain factors outside the Group’s control, such as a loss of confidence of depositors in either the economy in general, the financial services industry or the Group specifically, ratings downgrades, significant further deterioration in economic conditions and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees (including as a result of regulatory changes to deposit guarantee schemes and/or changes to the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and/or the ELG Scheme). These factors could lead to a reduction in the Group’s ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms in the future and to sustained deposit outflows, both of which would impact on the Group’s ability to fund its operations and meet its minimum liquidity requirements. In such circumstances, if the current challenges in the wholesale funding markets were not resolved or Monetary Authority lending to financial institutions is withdrawn or curtailed, it is likely that wholesale funding would prove more difficult and costly to obtain. Any loss in consumer confidence in the Group’s banking businesses or in banking businesses generally, could significantly increase the amount of retail deposit withdrawals in a short space of time. Should the Group experience an unusually high level of withdrawals, this may have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects and could, in extreme circumstances, prevent the Group from funding its operations and meeting its minimum liquidity requirements. In such extreme circumstances the Group may not be in a position to continue to operate without additional funding support, which it may be unable to access. The termination of, or changes to the operation of, or the participation by the Group in, the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and the ELG Scheme or changes in the terms of the Group’s participation in such schemes could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The ELG Scheme facilitates participating institutions, including the Group, in issuing debt securities and taking deposits which are due to mature after the expiry of the CIFS Guarantee Scheme on September 29, 2010. The ELG Scheme was approved by the European Commission under State aid rules on November 20, 2009 and by the Houses of the Oireachtas (parliament of Ireland) on December 3, 2009 and commenced on December 9, 2009. The Bank became a participating institution in the ELG Scheme on January 11, 2010. The CIFS Guarantee Scheme and ELG Scheme are currently scheduled to expire on September 29, 2010 (bonds and deposits issued under the ELG Scheme before September 29, 2010 will be covered up to maturity, subject to a maximum maturity of five years). The ELG Scheme’s current approval by the European Commission under EU State aid rules is subject to review by the end of June 2010. Arising from this review, the European Commission could require the amendment or cessation of the ELG Scheme. On March 30, 2010 the Minister for Finance announced that he would be seeking European Commission approval for an extension of a modified ELG Scheme consistent with its phasing out over a realistic period of time. The next review of this scheme is due for completion by the end of June 2010. Notwithstanding this announcement, the nature of the proposed extension is subject to approval by the European Commission and this could be influenced by a range of factors including EU policy. In addition, on November 9, 2009, the ECB highlighted that guarantees of short term bank debt (maturity profile of less than three months) and interbank deposits should be avoided to the extent possible and, as such, there is a risk that in its review of the ELG Scheme to be completed by the end of June 2010, the European Commission could require that the ELG Scheme, which currently covers short term bank debt and interbank deposits, be amended so as to limit the guarantee coverage of these forms of liability in the future. 18 Table of Contents The cancellation or material amendment of the ELG Scheme prior to the scheduled expiry date of the Issuance Window on September 29, 2010 following the review by the European Commission by the end of June 2010 could introduce systemic weakness to the Irish banking sector and remove an important element of liquidity support for the sector as a whole. As such, the cancellation or material amendment of the ELG Scheme, or the removal of the Group from the ELG Scheme prior to its planned expiry could adversely affect the terms on which the Group would be able to access funding. The Group’s financial position may also be impacted by material changes to the costs of participating in the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and/or the ELG Scheme, which may be changed at the discretion of Minister for Finance and the European Commission. While a key focus for the Group is to reduce its reliance on the Government Guarantee Schemes, should the ELG Scheme be extended, the Group could, in order to meet market expectations, continue to participate in the ELG Scheme and the on-going cost of the ELG Scheme could adversely affect the Group’s financial performance and delay it from achieving its financial targets. Furthermore, should the expiry of the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and the ELG Scheme on September 29, 2010 lead to unanticipated adverse impacts on the Group’s funding markets, the Group may suffer constraints on liquidity that could materially adversely affect the Group’s business. The Irish banking system may restructure and change significantly which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The banking system in Ireland was impacted by the systemic issues facing the financial sector globally caused by factors such as the collapse of sub-prime mortgage lending in the US, the failure of a number of high profile financial institutions, such as Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, the global credit crisis and rapidly deteriorating economic conditions, particularly in Ireland. Arising from these events, there have been a number of Government and market responses impacting or potentially impacting on the structure of the Irish banking sector, including: • The Government has taken or has announced that it is likely to take steps to support or recapitalise substantially certain of the domestic major Irish banks and building societies and in doing so has taken, or has announced that it is likely to take, significant equity positions in certain of the major domestic Irish banks and building societies, in some cases amounting to majority voting control or nationalisation. • On January 19, 2010 the Government announced a framework for an investigation into the factors which contributed to the Irish banking crisis within the context of the international economic and financial environment at that time (for further information see page 29). • The Government also announced on March 30, 2010, the introduction of proposed new legislation that will amend the manner in which Irish financial institutions are regulated. • There is the possibility that the Government may support initiatives to develop a “third force” in Irish banking, created by the possible merger of several smaller financial institutions. The Directors believe it is possible that, arising from these responses to the banking crisis in Ireland, a restructuring of the Irish banking system may occur in addition to the changes that have happened to date. It is unclear what form any such restructuring might take or over what timeframe it might occur. It is also unclear whether such restructuring might take place on a market driven basis or whether other factors such as the involvement of the European Commission or the Government would have an impact. As a material part of the Group’s business and activities are in Ireland, the competitive position of the Group in the Irish banking system may be materially adversely affected by any such restructuring. The NPRFC Investment, the Government Transaction and NAMA are the subject of a review by the European Commission under EU State aid rules, the outcome of which is uncertain and may involve the prohibition of some or all elements of the State aid provided to the Group by the Government, the requirement for the Group to repay the State aid, or the imposition of conditions on the Group that may be materially adverse to its interests. The NPRFC Investment, the Government Transaction (which comprises the NPRFC Placing, Warrant Cancellation, the NPRFC Rights Issue Undertaking, the amendment of the rights attaching to the 2009 Preference Stock and the 19 Table of Contents other transactions, rights and obligations set out in the Government Transaction Agreement as more particularly described on page 22 and the Group’s participation in NAMA are the subject of an ongoing review by the European Commission under EU State aid rules. As a consequence of the State aid provided to the Group under these measures, an EU Restructuring Plan for the Group was required to be prepared by the Group and submitted by the Department of Finance to the European Commission for approval under EU State aid rules. As part of this process, discussions are ongoing between the European Commission, the Group and the Department of Finance in relation to the draft EU Restructuring Plan. Although the EU Restructuring Plan has not been finalised, the European Commission has communicated that it will require the Group to effect certain structural (through divestments and wind-downs) and behavioural measures. Furthermore, the Irish Government is proposing to introduce a set of measures for the Irish banking sector which would complement the specific measures agreed as part of the individual European Commission restructuring plans for Irish banks that are subject to Restructuring under EU State aid rules (among which includes the EU Restructuring Plan) (“Irish Government Measures”). The exact scope and extent of the Irish Government Measures as at the date of this Form 20-F is not known to the Group. Based on the status of these negotiations, details of those elements which the Group considers likely to form part of the final EU Restructuring Plan are set out in note 58 to the Consolidated financial statements. The decision regarding the approval of the Irish Government Measures, including the terms of the final EU Restructuring Plan, will be taken by the European Commission. As at the date of this Form 20-F, there can be no certainty as to the outcome of the State aid proceedings and the content of the final EU Restructuring Plan (including in relation to the Irish Government Measures). In particular, the final EU Restructuring Plan may differ from the Group’s expectations set out in note 58 to the Consolidated financial statements. If the European Commission does not approve the EU Restructuring Plan in substantially the form prepared by the Group in consultation with the Department of Finance (as amended in discussions with the European Commission), the European Commission would instead likely open a formal investigation into State aid given to the Group. At the conclusion of this investigation, the European Commission could impose conditions that are more disadvantageous, potentially materially so, to the Group than those in the proposed EU Restructuring Plan. In particular, the Group could be required to dispose of a significantly larger proportion of its assets and/or agree to a significantly more stringent divestment timetable or more onerous behavioural restrictions than those contemplated in the proposed EU Restructuring Plan. Any more extensive remedies could have a greater and materially more negative impact on the Group’s business, operations and competitive position than would be the case if the Group implemented the proposed EU Restructuring Plan. In such circumstances, unless, during the course of the formal investigation, a revised EU Restructuring Plan was submitted that was acceptable to the European Commission, the European Commission may, instead of imposing more disadvantageous conditions as described above, require the Irish Government to recover the State aid from the Group. At any stage of the process, the Group could challenge any European Commission decision adverse to the interests of the Group in the EU courts. However, should the Group ultimately be unsuccessful in any such challenge, the Group would be required to comply with the Commission’s decision and therefore, the consequences for the Group could, as described above, be significantly adverse to the Group’s interests. In addition, it is possible that even if the European Commission does approve the EU Restructuring Plan in substantially the form prepared by the Group in consultation with the Department of Finance (as amended in discussions with the European Commission), a third party may challenge that decision in the EU courts. If such a challenge were to emerge and succeed, the European Commission would need to reconsider its decision, which may result in any of the adverse outcomes described above. The Group could be subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the EU Restructuring Plan in the form prepared by the Group in consultation with the Department of Finance in relation to the divestment and wind-down measures. There is no assurance that the price that the Group receives for any assets sold pursuant to the final EU Restructuring Plan will be at a level the Group considers adequate or which it could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to sell such assets in order to implement the EU Restructuring Plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms thereof. In particular, should the Group fail to complete the divestments required by the EU Restructuring Plan, namely, New Ireland Assurance Company plc, Bank of Ireland Asset Management Limited, ICS Building Society, Foreign Currency Exchange Corporation and its stakes in Paul Capital Investments LLC and the Irish Credit Bureau Limited, within the relevant time periods set out in the 20 Table of Contents EU Restructuring Plan, a divestiture trustee(s) could be appointed by the European Commission to conduct the sale, with a mandate to complete the disposal with no minimum price (including at a negative price). Furthermore, if by a certain time, the Group has failed to implement its commitment to run-off its UK intermediary mortgage portfolio to a certain level under the EU Restructuring Plan, then Bank of Ireland will be required to ensure that within a certain period, on a consolidated basis, its consolidated loans to customers will at least be matched by consolidated customer deposits plus wholesale funding greater than one year (i.e., the ratio of Bank of Ireland customer loans to Bank of Ireland customer deposits plus wholesale funding greater than one year will not be more than 100%). In implementing the final EU Restructuring Plan, the Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets through the sale of businesses and potentially suffer damage to the rest of the Group’s business arising from implementing the final EU Restructuring Plan regarding the divestment measures, and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals may be inhibited. Such implementation may also result in disruption to the retained business impacting on customers, and could result in separation costs which could potentially be substantial. The Group will also be subject to a variety of other risks as a result of implementing the EU Restructuring Plan in the form prepared by the Group in consultation with the Department of Finance in relation to the expected behavioural measures. The implementation of these behavioural measures by the Group may lead to the emergence of new competitors in the Irish market and the emergence of stronger current competitors in the Irish market which could have a material adverse impact on the performance of the Group. In implementing the behavioural measures, the Group may be required to provide access to its customers for the benefit of new and current competitors. This, and other potential consequences of implementing the behavioural measures, will mean that the Group could lose some existing customers and deposits and, through damage to the Group’s business arising from implementing such measures, damage the potential for the Group to gain customers and realise additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such behavioural measures. Such implementation may also result in disruption to the Group’s business, which may impact adversely on its customers and could result in operational costs which could potentially be substantial. A monitoring trustee(s) (and possibly a divestment trustee(s)) will be appointed in respect of the EU Restructuring Plan and the actions of the monitoring trustee(s) (and any divestment trustee(s)) may further adversely impact on the Group and its performance. In addition, the Group could be subject to a variety of risks as a result of the implementation of the Irish Government Measures, the exact scope and extent of which is not known to the Group at the date of this Form 20-F. The implementation of these Irish Government Measures may lead, for example, to the emergence of new competitors in the Irish market and the emergence of stronger current competitors in the Irish market which could have a material adverse affect on of the performance of the Group. These, and other potential consequences of the implementation of the Irish Government Measures, will mean that the Group could lose existing business, and potentially, adversely affect the Group’s business, as well as adversely affect the potential for the Group to gain customers and realise additional associated revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such Irish Government Measures. The effect of implementing the final EU Restructuring Plan and the Irish Government Measures may be the emergence of one or more new competitors and/or a material strengthening of one or more of the Group’s existing competitors in the Irish banking market. There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to continue to compete as effectively (whether against existing or new or strengthened competitors) and maintain or improve its revenues and margins in the resulting competitive environment, which could adversely affect the Group’s results, operations and financial condition and its business generally. On February 26, 2010, the European Commission approved the establishment of NAMA under EU State aid rules. The European Commission will assess the compatibility of the transferred assets under EU State aid rules as they are separately notified by the Government (in particular in relation to the transfer price). As a result, the transfer of assets by the Bank to NAMA will be subject to assessment by the European Commission to ensure the ongoing compatibility of the implementation of NAMA under the EU State aid rules. As at the date of this Form 20-F, there can be no certainty as to the outcome of such an assessment by the European Commission and such an assessment could adversely affect the Group’s results, operations and financial condition and its business generally. 21 Table of Contents If any or all of the risks described in this paragraph materialise or have a greater impact than expected or any other currently unforeseen risks materialise, there could be a negative impact which could be material on the Group’s business, operations and competitive position. The Group’s participation in the CIFS Guarantee Scheme, the ELG Scheme, the NPRFC Investment, NAMA and the Government Transaction could require the Group to implement operational policies that could materially adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The terms and conditions of the CIFS Guarantee Scheme, the ELG Scheme, the NPRFC Investment, NAMA and the Government Transaction place certain restrictions on, and require the Group to submit to a degree of governmental regulation in relation to, the operation of the Group’s business. Under the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and the ELG Scheme, the Minister for Finance may impose restrictions on the expansion of capital and lending activity of the Group as a covered institution, the declaration and payment of dividends and the implementation of buy-backs or share redemptions. No covered institution, including the Bank, may acquire shares in any other credit institution or financial institution, establish subsidiaries or enter into or acquire new business(es) where such activities would increase the liability of the covered institution under the CIFS Guarantee Scheme. In addition, the NTMA may issue directions to covered institutions to comply with some or all of the provisions of conduct, transparency and reporting requirements applicable to covered institutions under the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and the ELG Scheme. In connection with the NPRFC Investment and pursuant to the terms of the Subscription Agreement, the Bank provided warranties in respect of certain matters relating to the financial position and commercial activities of the Bank and is required to consult with the Minister for Finance in respect of matters reasonably expected to have a public interest dimension. The Bank must also use all reasonable efforts to comply with the customer package set out in Appendix I to the announcement issued by the Department of Finance on February 11, 2009, which includes, among other things, increasing lending capacity to SMEs and providing additional mortgage lending capacity for first time buyers, compliance with the Code of Conduct for Business Lending to Small and Medium Enterprises and compliance with the Code of Conduct for Mortgage Arrears. Under the Government Transaction Agreement the Bank has committed to promote the availability of credit and the development of the Irish economy, including the commitment to use all reasonable efforts to meet a lending target of €3 billion per annum for new or increased credit facilities to SMEs in Ireland in each of the twelve month periods starting on April 1, 2010 and April 1, 2011. Under the terms of the Credit Review Guidelines, issued pursuant to the NAMA Act, Participating Institutions’ decisions to refuse credit facilities to SMEs, sole traders and farming enterprises for sums of between €1,000 and €250,000 are subject to review, if requested by the applicant, by the Credit Reviewer on the grounds of the viability and repayment capacity of the applicant. While the Credit Reviewer does not have the power to override the lending decision of the Participating Institution, if a Participating Institution does not comply with a recommendation of the Credit Reviewer, it is required to provide an explanation for this refusal. The implementation of some or all of these measures could entail the Group effecting policies that it might not otherwise implement on purely commercial grounds. In particular, implementing these policies could result in a concentration of lending by the Group to SMEs in Ireland. As such, these measures could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Further details on the Group’s relationship with the Government through its participation in NAMA, the NPRFC Investment, the CIFS Guarantee Scheme, the ELG Scheme and the Government Transaction are set out in note 55 in the notes to the Consolidated financial statements. Participation in NAMA may subject the Group to directions from the Financial Regulator, NAMA, the Minister for Finance or the European Commission which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. By virtue of the Group’s participation in NAMA, the Group could be subject to additional directions from the Financial Regulator and/or the Minister for Finance as to the conduct of its business in addition to the restrictions 22 Table of Contents and potential restrictions arising out of the NPRFC Investment and the Group’s participation in the CIFS Guarantee Scheme and ELG Scheme and the law and regulation applicable to credit institutions. See risk factor entitled “The Group’s participation in the CIFS Guarantee Scheme, the ELG Scheme, the NPRFC Investment, NAMA and the Government Transaction could require the Group to implement operational policies that could materially adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects”. In addition, as a condition of the Group’s participation in NAMA, the Group will not have control over which of the Group’s loans are transferred to NAMA. The NAMA Act provides that the Group shall not, without the prior written approval of NAMA, deal with Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets other than in the ordinary course of its business, in any way which may impair NAMA’s interests, compromise any claim or vary any contract. These restrictions apply before any transfer to NAMA, and also apply in respect of assets eligible for transfer which do not actually transfer. The Financial Regulator may direct the Group to provide any report that the Financial Regulator considers necessary to monitor the Group’s compliance with the obligations under or by virtue of the NAMA Act. The Financial Regulator could also exercise its power under the NAMA Act to require the consolidation or merger of Participating Institutions, including Bank of Ireland. Under the NAMA Act, the Group may also be required to provide such services as NAMA may direct and to comply with such monitoring of lending and balance sheet management as the Minister for Finance or the Financial Regulator may direct. A Participating Institution may also be directed by the Minister for Finance to draw up, or amend, a restructuring or business plan; and, if the Minister for Finance approves such plan, the Participating Institution is obliged to take all reasonable steps to implement it. The European Commission will assess the compatibility (and, in particular, the actual transfer price) of the transferred assets when they are notified by the Government and this includes a claw-back mechanism in the case of excess payments. Such an assessment could have an adverse effect on the Group. These directions could restrict the Group’s balance sheet growth, limit the Group’s ability to make acquisitions or require the Group to dispose of assets, including its loan portfolios. Any such directions may adversely affect the Group’s profitability, financial condition and prospects. Further details on the Group’s relationship with the Government through its participation in NAMA, the NPRFC Investment, the CIFS Guarantee Scheme, the ELG Scheme and the Government Transaction are set out in note 55 to the Consolidated financial statements. The NPRFC could exercise its voting rights in a manner which is not aligned with the interests of the Group or its other stockholders. The Government (through the NPRFC) is currently the largest holder of Ordinary Stock, holding approximately 36% from June 14, 2010. The NPRFC also holds all of the 2009 Preference Stock. Under the terms of the 2009 Preference Stock, if the Bank does not pay the cash dividend otherwise due on the 2009 Preference Stock, payable annually on February 20, it is required to issue units of Ordinary Stock to the NPRFC in lieu of the relevant cash dividend. This could arise if the Bank was precluded from paying dividends by virtue of the terms of a “dividend stopper” provision or by having inadequate distributable reserves at the relevant dividend declaration date. As further described in the risk factor “The Group is currently precluded from paying dividends or distributions on certain instruments affected by the terms of a “dividend stopper”, including its 2009 Preference Stock and the ACSM Hybrids for a period of one calendar year from and including February 1, 2010. In the event that the Group remains, or subsequently becomes, precluded from paying, or elects not to pay, such dividend on the 2009 Preference Stock and/or the ACSM Hybrids, it will be required to issue units of Ordinary Stock to the holders of the 2009 Preference Stock (being the NPRFC) and/or to a trustee on behalf of the holders of the ACSM Hybrids, as the case may be. Consequently, the proportionate ownership and voting interests of Existing Stockholders will be diluted”, on Monday February 22, 2010, the Bank issued the NPRFC Coupon Ordinary Stock to the NPRFC in lieu of a cash dividend on the 2009 Preference Stock, which was otherwise due on February 20, 2010. If the Bank is precluded from paying, or elects not to pay, any future annual dividend on the 2009 Preference Stock, this will result in the issue of further units of Ordinary Stock to the NPRFC. This could ultimately result in the Government holding a significantly larger stake in the Bank. 23 Table of Contents Through the NPRFC’s stockholding of approximately 36% (as of June 14, 2010) in the Bank and other relationships with the Group, the Government is in a position to exert significant influence over the Group and its business. As the holder of the 2009 Preference Stock the NPRFC has the right to directly appoint 25% of the directors of the Group (such 25% to include any directors nominated by the Minister for Finance pursuant to the CIFS Guarantee Scheme). The tabling of any resolution at a General Court of the Bank to alter the capital structure of the Group requires the prior approval in writing of the Minister for Finance. These rights apply in full for so long as the NPRFC holds any units of 2009 Preference Stock and they are not reduced in line with any reduction in the number of units of 2009 Preference Stock held. In addition, as the holder of the NPRFC Coupon Ordinary Stock, the NPRFC is entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to these units of Ordinary Stock. As a result, the Government, through the NPRFC, is in a position to exert an influence over the Group’s business and there is a risk that the Government could exercise its voting rights in a manner which may not always be aligned with the interests of the Group’s other Stockholders. A change in Government policy or the Irish Government could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition, liquidity and prospects. Irish Government policy in respect of the banking sector, including its supervision, regulation, recapitalisation and structure, has and will continue to have a major impact on the Group. The Irish Government can implement its policy by utilising its extensive powers under existing legislation, the introduction of new or amended legislation or, in the Group’s case, the exercise of its stockholder and other rights pursuant to the NPRFC’s stockholding in the Bank. There can be no guarantee that the current policies of the Irish Government will be continued and the introduction of new Government policies or the amendment of existing policies could have a significant impact on the Group’s results, financial condition, liquidity and prospects. Such policies could be introduced by either the current Government or a new Government constituted by different members or parties from the currently elected Oireachtas (Irish Parliament) or appointed following a general election, which may be called by the current Government at any time before the end of the term of the current Government in July 2012. The discount on disposal of Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets to NAMA may exceed the Group’s estimate of €4.4 billion (arrived at using the methods and assumptions outlined on page 57) (including impairment provisions of €2.8 billion at December 31, 2009), and if it did it would adversely impact the Group’s capital and results of operations. Even after the transfer of assets to NAMA, the Group is exposed to some of NAMA’s losses in the event that NAMA has an underlying loss at the conclusion of its operations. As stated by the Minister for Finance on March 30, 2010, NAMA is now operational and the Group has since transferred Tranche 1 NAMA Assets of €1.9 billion (before impairment provisions) for which it received consideration of €1.2 billion in Government guaranteed bonds and non-guaranteed subordinated bonds. A number of uncertainties remain as to the specific quantum and mix of subsequent Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets which may transfer to NAMA, the timing of those transfers, the price that NAMA would pay for those loans, the fees that the Group would be paid for any work undertaken in relation to such loans and the “fair value” of the consideration to be received. Therefore, a number of uncertainties remain as to the final discount to book value on the total amount of Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets transferred to NAMA and there can be no assurance that the actual discount applied to Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets transferring to NAMA will not be greater than that estimated by the Directors. If the incremental loss which the Group is required to recognise as a result of the transfer of assets to NAMA is significantly greater than the Directors expect, this may result in a further diminution of the capital base of the Group and may result in the need for additional capital. In addition, the application of a discount to the Bank of Ireland Eligible Bank Assets that is significantly greater than currently anticipated could result in the Group being subject to downgrades in its credit ratings. See the risk factor “A series of further downgrades to the Group’s credit ratings or credit outlook could impair the Group’s access to funding, either by borrowing or through access to capital markets, trigger additional collateral requirements and/or weaken its competitive position”. 24 Table of Contents If NAMA makes a loss the shortfall up to the value of the non-guaranteed subordinated bonds issued by NAMA will be shared by the Participating Institutions, including the Group, up to the amount of the non-guaranteed subordinated bonds issued in proportion to each institution’s share of the total non-guaranteed subordinated bonds issued by NAMA. Such a shortfall could occur if the ultimate sales proceeds and income generated on the Eligible Bank Assets transferred to NAMA fail to cover the initial consideration paid and interest costs and expenses incurred by NAMA. As such, in the event that NAMA makes a loss on its operations, these subordinated securities could ultimately prove to be of little or no value to the Group, which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Further, if after the sharing of losses up to the value of the non-guaranteed subordinated bonds with the Participating Institutions NAMA makes an underlying loss at the conclusion of its operations calculated by reference to the Eligible Bank Assets it acquires from all the Participating Institutions (not just Bank of Ireland), the Group may be required to pay a tax surcharge to the Government which, depending on the quantum of underlying loss, may be significant and which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The tax surcharge payable to the Government will be apportioned to each Participating Institution on the basis of the book value of the Eligible Bank Assets acquired by NAMA from each Participating Institution concerned as a proportion of the total book value of the Eligible Bank Assets acquired by NAMA from all of the Participating Institutions. A series of further downgrades to the Group’s credit ratings or credit outlook could impair the Group’s access to funding, either by borrowing or through access to capital markets, trigger additional collateral requirements and/or weaken its competitive position As at June 7, 2010, the last practicable date prior to publication of this Form 20-F, the long-term (outlook) / short-term (outlook) credit ratings for the Group are A-(stable) / A-2 (stable) from Standard & Poor’s, A1(stable) / P-1(stable) from Moody’s Investor Service, A-(stable) / F1(stable) from Fitch Ratings and AA(Outlook Negative)/R-1 (Middle) (Outlook Stable) from DBRS. These credit ratings reflect the most recent action by Standard & Poor’s on January 26, 2010 to lower the credit ratings of the Group from A(negative watch) / A-1(negative watch) to A-(stable) / A-2(stable) as part of a general downgrade of Irish financial institutions, which led to an outflow of some ratings sensitive international deposits. While the Group believes that the probability of a material credit rating downgrade occurring in the next 12 months is relatively low, there can be no guarantee that the Group will not be subject to further downgrades and any further downgrades in the credit ratings of the Group could have a materially negative impact on the volume and pricing of its funding and its financial position, limit the Group’s access to the capital and funding markets, trigger material collateral requirements in derivative contracts or other secured-funding arrangements and weaken the Group’s competitive position in certain markets. In addition, the availability of deposits is often dependent on credit ratings and a series of further downgrades would be likely to lead to significant withdrawals of corporate or retail deposits which would result in a material deterioration in the Group’s funding and liquidity position and may have systemic implications for the Irish banking system. See the risk factors “Constraints on liquidity, lack of availability of funding and increased cost of funding could materially adversely affect the Group’s business” and “Further downgrades to the Irish sovereign ratings or outlook could impair the Group’s access to funding, trigger additional collateral requirements and weaken its competitive position” above for further information. The Group operates in competitive markets (subject to some price regulation) which are subject to significant change and uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on its results, financial condition and prospects. The Group is subject to significant competition in the markets in which it operates and some of its competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Group. The markets for financial services within which the Group operates are highly competitive. It is anticipated that such competition may intensify in response to regulatory actions, competitor behaviour, consumer demand, technological changes, the impact of consolidation, new market entrants and other factors. In the event that financial markets remain unstable, competitor and market consolidation may accelerate. In particular, competitive pricing pressures may limit the Group’s ability to normalise its deposit rates and increase rates on customer loans which would prevent the Group restoring its net interest margin to target average levels 25 Table of Contents which is a key driver of future profitability. In addition, the Group could also encounter difficulties in increasing interest rates to borrowers, particularly in respect of residential mortgages, due to the reputational impact such increases could have on the Group in the Irish market, and the political and/or legislative consequences that such an impact could have for the Group. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on net interest margins, and consequently on the results and financial condition of the Group. Intervention by Monetary Authorities in the banking sector may impact the competitive position of the Group relative to its international competitors who may be subject to intervention of a different quantum and nature, potentially putting the Group at a competitive disadvantage in certain markets. Competition may increase in some or all of the Group’s principal markets and may have an adverse effect on its results, financial condition and prospects. The Group is subject to extensive regulation and oversight. Failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and to manage the associated risks properly could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. The Group is subject to a wide variety of banking, insurance and financial services laws and regulations together with a large number of regulatory and enforcement authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current market environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention and changes to the regulations governing financial institutions, including nationalisations of financial institutions in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States and other European countries. In the wake of the current difficult economic conditions and ongoing concerns regarding the regulation of the financial sector, new regulatory provisions may be introduced to which Bank of Ireland could be subject either at national, EU or international level. As a result of these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape (including requirements imposed by virtue of the Group’s participation in any government or regulator-led initiatives), the Group expects to face greater regulation in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States (at a federal and state level) and other European countries in which it operates. Compliance with such regulations may increase the Group’s capital requirements and costs, could materially adversely affect its business, the products and services it offers and the value of its assets or require the Group to change certain of its business practices. As a result, the Group is exposed to regulatory and other risks, including: • the monetary, interest rate, capital adequacy and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities; • general changes in government or regulatory policy or changes in regulatory regimes that may significantly influence investor decisions, in particular in markets in which the Group operates or may increase the costs of doing business in those markets; • measures required by the European Commission under the EU Restructuring plan; • changes to the financial reporting environment and/or standards; • changes in taxation legislation and its interpretation; • changes to the type, amount or proportion of assets that the Group is required to hold in order to account for liquidity risk or changes to the way in which the Group is required to fund its operations; • potential requirements to develop and maintain a wind-down plan, also known as a “living will”, in respect of the Group, which would set out a proposed strategy should the Group fail, in order to limit the cost to creditors, public funds and other disruption and which may require changes to the Group’s structure and operations; • changes to the amount and quality of regulatory capital that the Group’s life assurance business is required to hold; • other general changes in regulatory requirements, such as prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, restrictions on activities or business growth or pricing and requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other than stockholder value creation; • changes in competition and pricing environments; 26 Table of Contents • changes in the market for banking sector assets, caused by widespread divestment of assets by financial institutions across the European Union in order to comply with State aid requirements; • changes to competition regulation and/or the regulation of the postal sector in the United Kingdom which may affect the joint ventures between the Group and Post Office Limited; • the application of new, or additional, regulatory regimes arising from a restructuring of the Group’s business such as to bring it within the jurisdiction of new or additional regulators; • differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with respect to the extension of guarantees to bank customer deposits and the terms attaching to such guarantees, including requirements for the Group to accept exposure to the risk of any individual member of the Group, or even third party participants in guarantee schemes, failing; • implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor compensation, guarantee or reimbursement schemes, including in the event a bank becomes unable to meet its obligations to customers, or changes to the funding or compensation limits of such schemes (including potential EU-wide harmonisation of the funding or compensation limits of deposit guarantee schemes as a result of the European Commission’s review of EC Directive 94/19/EC relating to such schemes); • expropriation, nationalisation and confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; and • other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may affect demand for the Group’s products and services. The Group is subject to extensive regulation and supervision in relation to the levels of capital in its business. The minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as the manner in which existing regulatory capital is calculated, could change in the future, which could materially adversely affect the Group’s results, financial conditions and prospects. As a result of the current environment and market events, the minimum regulatory requirements imposed on the Group, the manner in which the existing regulatory capital is calculated, the instruments that qualify as regulatory capital and the capital tier to which those instruments are allocated, could be subject to change in the future. A number of regulatory initiatives have recently been proposed, which would significantly alter the Group’s capital requirements. These proposed initiatives include: • EU Directive 2009/111/EC (“CRD II”): CRD II is due to be implemented by December 31, 2010. In particular it will make changes to the criteria for assessing hybrid capital eligible to be included in Tier 1 Capital and may require the Group to replace, over a staged grandfathering period, existing capital instruments that do not fall within these revised eligibility criteria. Whilst it has been adopted into law, there is still significant uncertainty around the interpretation and the implementation of the Directive as it relates to the Bank. • The EU Capital Requirements Directive III (“CRD III”): CRD III is currently subject to consultation and implementation of the rules is expected by January 1, 2011. It will introduce a number of changes in response to the recent and current market conditions, which may: • Increase the capital requirements for trading books to ensure that a firm’s assessment of the risks connected with its trading book better reflects the potential losses from adverse market movements in stressed conditions; • Limit investments in re-securitisations and impose higher capital requirements for re-securitisations to make sure that firms take proper account of the risks of investing in such complex financial products; and • Increase disclosure standards. • On December 16, 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a forum for regular co-operation on banking supervisory matters, published a consultation paper entitled “Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector”. The consultation paper contains proposals to strengthen the global capital framework by, 27 Table of Contents among other things, raising the quality of the Core Tier 1 Capital base in a harmonised manner (including through changes to the items which give rise to adjustments to that capital base), strengthening the risk coverage of the capital framework, promoting the build up of capital buffers and introducing a global minimum liquidity standard for the banking sector. The consultation paper was open for consultation until April 16, 2010 and any changes are not expected to be implemented until after 2012. • On February 26, 2010, the European Commission issued a public consultation document on further possible changes to the Capital Requirements Directive IV (“CRD IV”) which is closely aligned with the proposals of December 16, 2009 from the Basel Committee. • The Solvency II Directive (Directive 2009/138/EC), adopted by the European Parliament on April 22, 2009 and endorsed by the Council of Ministers on May 5, 2009, is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry. When implemented (required by October 31, 2012) the capital structure and overall governance of the Group’s life assurance business will alter significantly and this may have an impact on the capital structure of the Group. Significant uncertainty remains around the final requirements and implementation of these proposed initiatives. If certain of these measures were implemented as currently proposed, in particular the changes proposed by the Basel Committee and the CRD IV consultation document relating to the definition of and instruments that are eligible to be included within the Core Tier 1 Capital base, they would be expected to have a significant impact on the capital and asset and liability management of the Group, which in turn would be expected to have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. If the Group proceeds to transfer part of its UK business to a newly-incorporated, wholly owned subsidiary, any such subsidiary could be subject to special resolution regime powers under the UK Banking Act 2009. The Group has been actively considering transferring part of its UK business into a newly-incorporated, wholly owned subsidiary. The subsidiary would be likely to involve the Group’s Post Office joint ventures, its branch business in Northern Ireland and other parts of its UK business banking operations. If this transfer were to take place, the newly-incorporated, wholly owned subsidiary would be regulated by the FSA, as a UK authorised bank, and be subject to the special resolution regime under the UK Banking Act 2009. If the subsidiary was in the future, in a position in which it was considered, in the opinion of the FSA, to be failing, or likely to fail, to meet the threshold authorisation conditions in the FSMA, it could become subject to the exercise of the special resolution regime powers granted to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA under the UK Banking Act 2009. These powers are: (a) to transfer all or part of the business of the subsidiary or the shares of the subsidiary to a private sector purchaser, (b) transfer all or part of the business of the subsidiary to a “bridge bank” wholly owned by the Bank of England, or (c) take the subsidiary into temporary UK Government ownership, with the corresponding risk of the loss of the Group’s UK business within its UK wholly owned subsidiary. If the Group is required to hold higher levels of capital than anticipated by the market, this could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Credit institutions, including the Group, are required to hold adequate capital at levels determined by regulatory requirements and market expectations. Due to the ongoing uncertainty in financial markets, market expectations may require international banks to hold Equity Tier 1 Capital, Core Tier 1 Capital, and Tier 1 Capital at levels higher than currently expected or the definitions of these capital tiers may be subject to change. As a consequence, this could require the Group to hold higher levels of capital than the minimum 7% Equity Tier 1 Capital and 8% Core Tier 1 Capital targets set by the Financial Regulator in its Prudential Capital Assessment Review announced on March 30, 2010. These higher expectations in turn could adversely impact the Group’s operational flexibility and reduce earnings growth and restrain the Bank’s ability to pay dividends. 28 Table of Contents The Group may be subject to litigation proceedings and regulatory investigations which could have a material adverse impact on its results, financial condition and prospects. The Group may be subject to significant litigation and regulatory investigation risks. As a result, the Group may become involved in various disputes and legal proceedings in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States and other jurisdictions, including litigation and regulatory investigations. For instance, in the United Kingdom, the FSA has the power to revoke the Group’s UK permissions if the FSA considers it necessary to do so in order to protect customers. Disputes and legal proceedings, if they occur, are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a case or investigation. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the Group’s operations or result in an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, the outcome of current litigation and inquiries, including the outcome of appeals initiated by the Bank, disclosed in page 149 could be worse than expected and could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. If a court of law were to determine that the Bank is under a binding legal obligation to pay dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock, except in certain specified circumstances, the Bank could be required to compensate holders or former holders of the 1992 Preference Stock and could potentially be subject to claims by holders or former holders of Hybrid/Preferred Securities. The Bank has received correspondence from certain holders of the 1992 Preference Stock asserting that the Bank is under a binding legal obligation to pay dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock except in certain specified circumstances. The Bank’s view, based on external legal advice, has been, and remains, that the payment of dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock is a matter for the discretion of the Bank. Accordingly, because “dividend stopper’ provisions applicable to the Bank precluded it from paying any dividends unless under a binding legal obligation to do so, no dividends were paid by the Bank on the 1992 Preference Stock in February 2010. If such dividends had been declared and paid, the total amounts payable to holders of the 1992 Preference Stock would have been €4.64 million and £2.4 million. If court proceedings were initiated by any holders or former holders of the 1992 Preference Stock and a court ruled that the Bank is under a binding legal obligation to pay dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock except in certain specified circumstances and was, therefore, in breach of the terms of the 1992 Preference Stock by not paying a dividend to holders or former holders of the 1992 Preference Stock in February 2010, the Bank could be required to compensate such holders of the 1992 Preference Stock. In relation to the Hybrid/Preferred Securities, no payments were made in February, March or April 2010 in respect of coupons which might otherwise have been paid on the Hybrid/Preferred Securities. The total amount of such payments would have been €12.4 million, £2.4 million and US$34.5 million, respectively. Due to the provisions of the Hybrid/Preferred Securities preventing payment of dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock for a period of one year following the non payment of coupons on the Hybrid/Preferred Securities, any determination by a court of law that the Bank is under a binding legal obligation to pay dividends on the 1992 Preference Stock except in certain specified circumstances could potentially result in claims by holders or former holders of the Hybrid/Preferred Securities. The investigation into the factors which contributed to the Irish banking crisis announced by the Irish Government, may result in the Group incurring costs in facilitating and engaging with the investigation and may result, depending on the findings of the investigation, in reputational damage to the Group or further investigations into the Group’s conduct. Investigation into the banking system On January 19, 2010, the Minister for Finance announced a framework for an investigation into the factors which contributed to the Irish banking crisis within the context of the international economic and financial environment at that time. 29 Table of Contents As part of the first stage of the investigation into the banking system, the Government commissioned two preliminary investigatory reports. A report on the functions of the CBFSAI over the period from the establishment of the Financial Regulator in May 2003 to the end of September 2008 has been prepared by the recently appointed Governor of the CBFSAI. A second report, dealing with an investigation into the specific factors within the Irish banking sector which exacerbated the impact of the international financial crisis for Ireland, has been prepared by independent experts appointed by the Minister. This preliminary report involved inquiry into the conduct, management and corporate governance of individual financial institutions, including the Bank. Both preliminary reports have been submitted to the Minister and have been published. Their findings are expected to form the basis of the terms of reference of a formal statutory investigation (the “Statutory Commission of Investigation”) which will be established by the Government pursuant to the Commissions of Investigation Act, 2004. At the second stage of the investigation into the banking system, it is expected that the Statutory Commission of Investigation will examine the performance of individual banks and bank directors, the performance of regulatory authorities, the response of Government and Government agencies and the structure of the banking system in Ireland generally. The Government anticipates that the Statutory Commission of Investigation will be established by June 30, 2010 and complete its work by the end of 2010, at which point its findings will be laid before the Finance and Public Service Oireachtas Committee for its consideration. Further inquiry may result from the findings of the Statutory Commission of Investigation, including the possibility of public hearings. Further information including the preliminary reports are available on www. bankinginquiry.gov.ie. Bank of Ireland may incur significant costs, including legal and financial adviser costs, in facilitating and/or engaging with these investigations, and any ancillary investigations that may arise following the initial investigations. The results of these investigations could also result in ancillary investigations that may result in sanctions or other actions being taken against the Group. In addition, the reports or findings (including preliminary findings) or submissions given in public or otherwise released in respect of these investigations could have an adverse effect on the Group’s reputation. The Group may not succeed in implementing or fully implementing its plan to reduce the deficits in the defined benefit pension schemes it sponsors by a combination of benefit restructuring and additional employer contributions. In the event that these deficits result in the schemes becoming unable to meet their liabilities, the Group could elect to, or be required to, make additional, potentially significant, contributions to the schemes which could have a materially negative impact on the Group’s financial condition and trading performance. In addition, and notwithstanding the implementation of these plans to reduce the deficits, the Group may if appropriate, elect to, or may be required to, make further contributions to its pension schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations. The Group sponsors a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees. As at December 31, 2009, these pension schemes had a deficit of €1.6 billion (calculated on the basis of IAS 19). As is set out in more detail in note 58 to the Consolidated financial statements, the Group has had extensive discussions with staff representative bodies in order to address this deficit by a combination of benefits restructuring and additional employer contributions over a period of time. If fully implemented, the benefits restructuring aspect of this proposed approach is estimated to deliver a reduction of approximately 50% in the total deficit across all schemes relative to the December 31, 2009 IAS 19 deficit position. While this approach has been agreed (following its recommendation by an independent third party chairman) with the members, in respect of the main pension scheme (which accounts for approximately 85% of the total deficit across all schemes), there is no guarantee that the finalised proposals will be approved by all of the members. As such, there is a risk that the proposed approach will not be fully implemented with all of the scheme members and that the deficit will not be reduced by the amount anticipated by the Group. In the event that the proposed approach fails to reduce these deficits, there is a risk that the pension schemes could fail to meet their liabilities. This could have a significant reputational impact on the Group. In these circumstances, the Group could choose to make additional contributions to the relevant schemes or could be obliged to make additional contributions to the 30 Table of Contents schemes. Such contributions could be significant and may have a materially negative impact on the Group’s financial condition and trading performance. In addition, and notwithstanding the implementation of the proposals to reduce the current pension scheme deficits outlined above, the pension funds are subject to market fluctuations and changes in the value of underlying securities, as well as interest rate risk and changes to actuarial assumptions. These fluctuations could impact on the value of the schemes’ asset portfolios and result in returns on the pension funds being less than expected and/or result in there being a greater than expected increase in the estimated value of the schemes’ liabilities. As a result, new or additional deficits in the schemes may arise which could result in the Group choosing or being obliged to make additional contributions to the schemes in the event those schemes became unable to meet their liabilities. Such contributions could be significant and may have a materially negative impact on the Group’s financial condition and trading performance. Weaknesses or failures in the Group’s internal processes and procedures including IT or equipment failures and other operational risks could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects and could result in reputational damage. The Group’s businesses are dependent on their ability to process and report, accurately and efficiently, a high volume of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products and services, in different currencies and subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes. Operational risks are inherently present in the Group’s businesses, including, as a result of potentially inadequate or failed internal processes (including financial reporting and risk monitoring processes), IT or equipment failures or the failure of external systems and controls including those of the Group’s suppliers or counterparties (supplier and counterparty systems, controls, and processes being entirely outside the control of the Group) or from people-related or external events, such as the risk of fraud and other criminal acts carried out against the Group. The Group has obligations as a non-US registrant under US securities laws and regulations, including the requirement to comply, where applicable, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOx”). The Group has put in place a comprehensive framework to document and test its internal control structures and procedures in line with the requirements of Section 404 of SOx, which requires, among other things, certification by management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. There can, however, be no assurance that the risk-controls or loss-mitigation actions implemented will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group. Any weakness in these controls or actions could result in a material adverse impact on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects, as well as reputational damage which could exacerbate such adverse impact. The Group’s life assurance business is subject to inherent risks involving claims, as well as market conditions generally. Life assurance risk is the potential volatility in the amount and timing of claims caused by unexpected changes in mortality, longevity and morbidity. Mortality risk is the risk of deviations in timing and amounts of cash flows paid to policy holders (premiums and benefits) due to the incidence or non-incidence of death. Longevity risk is the risk of such deviations due to increasing life expectancy trends among policy holders and pensioners, resulting in payout ratios higher than those the Group originally accounted for. Morbidity risk is the risk of deviations in timing and amount of cash flows to policy holders (such as claims) due to the incidence or non-incidence of disability and sickness. A material change in relation to any of these risks could materially and adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, the Group’s life assurance business is subject to risks relating to the volatility in the value of the underlying assets held to meet its liabilities. In Ireland and the Isle of Man, the Group is responsible for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that may be unable to meet their obligations to customers. The Group is obliged to contribute to investor compensation schemes in Ireland and the Isle of Man, (“Compensation Schemes”) which are designed to compensate (up to defined limits) certain classes of customers of authorised financial services firms where a firm is unable, or deemed likely to be unable, to pay claims against it. The Compensation Schemes are funded by levies on firms authorised by the respective financial regulators. In the event 31 Table of Contents that one or more Compensation Scheme significantly increases the levies to be paid by firms or changes the coverage or funding levels, the associated costs to the Group may have a material impact on its results, operations and financial condition. If the Group becomes subject to employment disputes or industrial action, this could adversely affect its business. A significant number of the Group’s employees are members of trade unions. The Group currently consults with its employees and their representatives regarding pay, pensions, work practices and conditions of employment. The Group recognises that challenges may arise in relation to pay, pensions and terms and conditions of employment which may need to be resolved through established industrial relations fora. In the event that the Group becomes subject to industrial action or other labour conflicts, including strikes or other forms of industrial actions, this may result in a disruption to the Group’s business, financial condition and prospects. The Group may not be able to recruit, retain and develop appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. The Group’s success depends in part on the availability of skilled management and the continued service of key members of its management team. The Group depends on the availability of skilled management both at its head office and at each of its business units. Failure by the Group to staff its operations appropriately, or the loss of one or more key senior executives, and failure to replace them in a satisfactory and timely manner, may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, if the Group fails to attract and appropriately train, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, its business may also be negatively affected. Restrictions imposed on remuneration by Government or regulatory authorities or other factors outside of the Group’s control in relation to the retention and recruitment of key executives may also adversely impact on the Group’s ability to attract and retain appropriately skilled personnel. If the Central Bank Reform Bill 2010 is enacted as currently drafted, the Group would also be required to submit for review and approval, proposed new appointments to some senior management positions. This could have a material adverse effect on the Group if the approval process resulted in delays in filling key positions or impacted the Group’s ability to attract suitable candidates. The Group’s operations have inherent reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion. Reputational risk is inherent in the Group’s business. Negative public or industry opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business activities or from actual or perceived practices in the banking industry, such as money laundering or mis-selling of financial products. Negative public or industry opinion may adversely affect the Group’s ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors the loss of which would in each case adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition and prospects. The effect of the realisation of country risk in respect of other sovereign issuers could spread to Irish financial institutions and could result in a material adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Country risk is the risk that a counterparty is unable to meet its contractual obligations as a result of adverse economic conditions or actions taken by the government in the relevant country. This includes the risk that: • a sovereign borrower may be unable or unwilling to fulfil contractual obligations; and/or • a non-sovereign counterparty may be unable to fulfil its contractual obligations as a result of currency shortage due to adverse economic conditions or actions taken by the government of the country. Country risk in a sovereign issuer other than Ireland, especially a European sovereign issuer, could have an impact on capital markets in general, in particular on the market perception of the risks associated with lending to peripheral European sovereign issuers, such as Ireland, and financial institutions in those countries, such as the Bank. As such, country risk could have a significant adverse effect on the Group’s access to funding, results, financial condition and prospects. 32 Table of Contents The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate. In establishing the fair value of certain financial instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable financial market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in financial market conditions. In such circumstances, the Group’s internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Change of control may lead to adverse consequences for the Group. Bank of Ireland and its subsidiaries are parties to joint ventures, contracts and other agreements containing change of control provisions that may be triggered in the event of a change of control of the relevant Group entity for example as a result of a major stockholder, such as the NPRFC, obtaining a majority stake in the Bank. These include the joint ventures between the Bank and Post Office Limited (“POL”) which operates the Post Office network in the United Kingdom — one in relation to foreign exchange (First Rate) and one in relation to Post Office branded retail financial services products. Agreements with change of control provisions typically provide for, or permit, the termination of the agreement upon the occurrence of a change of control of one of the parties or if the new controlling party does not satisfy certain criteria. The crystalisation of change of control provisions could also result in the loss of contractual rights and benefits, as well as the termination of joint venture agreements. On a change of control of the relevant Group entity, the exercise of such rights or the decision by a counterparty not to waive or vary its rights on a change of control could have a material effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Changes in taxation rates, legislation or practice may lead to adverse consequences for the Group. The Group is subject to various tax rates in various jurisdictions computed in accordance with local legislation and practice. There is a risk that such tax rates, legislation and practice may change, which could adversely affect the results, financial condition and prospects of the Group. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits to the extent that it is probable that such losses will be utilised. The assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and are subject to change in respect of the tax rate or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses. A failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation may reduce the recoverable amount of the deferred tax assets currently recognised in the financial statements. The Group’s results of operations and the markets in which it operates may be adversely affected by terrorist, geopolitical, pandemic and natural disaster risks. Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, natural disaster, pandemic or other such events and responses to those acts/events may also create economic and political uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on Irish, United Kingdom, United States, European Union and international economic conditions generally, 33 Table of Contents and in ways that cannot necessarily be predicted. These events could have an adverse effect on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. 