Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our reserve estimates may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projected future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data and standardized measures set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, drilling, testing and production data acquired subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revising such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs that are ultimately recovered. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geologic success, the timing and identification of future drilling locations, prices, future production levels, costs and our ability to finance our future development that may not prove correct over time. Predictions of future production levels, development schedules (particularly with regard to non-operated properties), prices and future operating costs are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. The present value of net proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the present value, discounted at 10%, of the pre-tax future net cash flows attributable to our net proved reserves on the average oil and natural gas prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of the-month price for each month within such period, adjusted for quality and transportation. The costs to produce the reserves remain constant at the costs prevailing on the date of the estimate. Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower, and higher future costs and/or lower future prices may impact whether development of our reserves in the future occurs as scheduled or at all. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which the SEC requires us to use in calculating our discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital from time to time and/or the risks associated with our business. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. We compete with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of our business. Our competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and natural gas companies as well as numerous independents, including many that have significantly greater resources. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. We also compete for the materials, equipment and services that are necessary for the exploration, development and operation of our properties. Our ability to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include: • our access to the capital necessary to drill and complete wells and acquire properties; • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property; • our ability to procure materials, equipment and services required to explore, develop and operate our properties; and • our ability to access pipelines, and the locations of facilities used to produce and transport oil and natural gas production. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to effectively market production and may ultimately affect our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas depends on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the availability of pipeline, rail and refinery capacity, including facilities owned and operated by third parties; • the availability of a market for our oil production; • the availability of satisfactory transportation arrangements for our oil and natural gas production; • the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; • the effects of inclement weather; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternative fuel sources; • state and federal regulations of oil and natural gas marketing and transportation; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. Because of these factors and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to market all of the oil and natural gas that we produce. In addition, we may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas we produce. Any derivative transactions we enter into may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. We enter into financial derivative transactions from time to time to manage our exposure to commodity price risks. These transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices rise above the levels established by our derivative transactions. These transactions may also expose us to other risks of financial losses, for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a derivative instrument or if a counterparty to our derivative instruments fails to perform its obligations under a derivatives transaction. The adoption of derivatives legislation and regulations related to derivative contracts could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Title VII of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) establishes federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives and requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to enact further regulations affecting derivative contracts, including the derivative contracts we use to hedge our exposure to price volatility through the OTC market. Although the CFTC and the SEC have issued final regulations in certain areas, final rules in other areas and the scope of relevant definitions and/or exemptions still remain to be finalized. In one of its rulemaking 20 Table of Contents proceedings still pending under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC issued on November 5, 2013, a proposed rule imposing position limits for certain futures and option contracts in various commodities (including natural gas) and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain specified types of hedging transactions are exempt from these position limits, provided that such hedging transactions satisfy the CFTC’s requirements for “bona fide hedging” transactions or positions. Similarly, the CFTC has issued a proposed rule on margin requirements for swap transactions, which proposes an exemption for commercial end-users, entering into uncleared swaps in order to hedge commercial risks affecting their business, from any requirement to post margin to secure such swap transactions. In addition, the CFTC has issued a final rule authorizing an exception for commercial end-users using swaps to hedge their commercial risks from the otherwise applicable mandatory obligation under the Dodd-Frank Act to clear all swap transactions through a registered derivatives clearing organization and to trade all such swaps on a registered exchange. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes recordkeeping and reporting obligations on counterparties to swap transactions and other regulatory compliance obligations. All of the above regulations could increase the costs to us of entering into financial derivative transactions to hedge or mitigate our exposure to commodity price volatility and other commercial risks affecting our business. While it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will issue final rules applicable to position limits or margin requirements, depending on the Company’s ability to satisfy the CFTC’s requirements for the various exemptions available for a commercial end-user using swaps to hedge or mitigate its commercial risks, these rules and regulations may require us to comply with position limits, margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our financial derivative activities. The Dodd-Frank Act may require our current counterparties to post additional capital as a result of entering into uncleared financial derivatives with us, which could increase the cost to us of entering into such derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require our current counterparties to financial derivative transactions to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties, and may cause some entities to cease their current business as hedge providers. These changes could reduce the liquidity of the financial derivatives markets thereby reducing the ability of commercial end-users to have access to financial derivatives to hedge or mitigate their exposure to commodity price volatility. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available capital for other commercial operations purposes), materially alter the terms of future swaps relative to the terms of our existing bilaterally negotiated financial derivative contracts, and reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against commercial risks we encounter. A decrease in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Energy commodity prices have been historically highly volatile, and such high levels of volatility are expected to continue in the future. We cannot accurately predict the market prices that we will receive for the sale of our natural gas, condensate, or oil production. Information about revenues attributable to our derivative transactions is available in Item 7-A — “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Oil and natural gas prices are subject to a variety of additional factors beyond our control, which include, but are not limited to: changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; market uncertainty; weather conditions in the United States; the condition of the United States economy; the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; governmental regulation; political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere; the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the price of foreign oil and natural gas imports; the availability of alternate fuel sources; and transportation interruption. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves, borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. 21 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our reserves and production is natural gas. Prices for natural gas have been lower in recent years than at various times in the past and may remain lower in the future. Sustained low prices for natural gas may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Natural gas prices have been lower in recent years than at various times in the past. These lower prices may be the result of increased supply resulting from increased drilling in unconventional reservoirs and/or lower demand resulting from changes in economic activity. Natural gas prices may remain at current levels, or fall to lower levels, in the future. Approximately 90% of our estimated net proved reserves is natural gas, and 92% of our production in 2014 was natural gas. Although we expect natural gas production operations on properties we currently own to be profitable at natural gas prices in effect during the past year, a period of sustained low natural gas prices could have adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Sustained low prices for oil may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Most of the production from our Uinta Basin properties is crude oil. Crude oil prices declined substantially during the last half of 2014 and have fallen further during the first month of 2015. In the future, crude oil prices may remain at current levels or fall to lower levels. If crude oil prices remain at current levels or fall to lower levels, this could adversely affect our crude oil operations and our financial condition. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our production. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require that we acquire permits before developing our properties; • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, completion and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; and • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells. Under these laws and regulations or under the common law, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental, natural resource and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We could also be affected by more stringent laws and regulations adopted in the future, including any related to climate change, engine emissions, greenhouse gases and hydraulic fracturing. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but do not maintain insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability in excess of our insurance coverage or may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. A significant percentage of our operations are conducted on federal and state lands. These operations are subject to a wide variety of regulations as well as other permits and authorizations which must be obtained from and issued by state and federal agencies. To conduct these operations, we may be required to file applications for permits, seek agency authorizations and comply with various other statutory and regulatory requirements. Complying with any of these requirements may adversely affect our ability to complete our drilling programs at the costs and in the time periods anticipated. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce. More stringent laws and regulations relating to climate change and GHGs may be adopted and could cause us to incur material expenses to comply. In the absence of comprehensive federal legislation on GHG emission 22 Table of Contents control, the EPA attempted to require the permitting of GHG emissions; although the Supreme Court struck down the permitting requirements, it upheld the EPA’s authority to control GHG emissions when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants. The EPA also requires the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, which may include facilities we operate. Reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis. We will have to incur costs associated with this reporting obligation. In addition, the United States Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce or measure GHG emission levels, often involving the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs require major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to reduce overall GHG emissions. The cost of these allowances could escalate significantly over time. The adoption and implementation of any legislation or regulatory programs imposing GHG reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Potential physical effects of climate change could adversely affect our operations and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In an interpretative guidance on climate change disclosures, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations, including the hydraulic fracturing of our wells, have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include disruption of our production activities, including, for example, damages to our facilities from powerful winds or increases in our costs of operation or reductions in the efficiency of our operations, as well as potentially increased costs for insurance coverages in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but is not subject to regulation at the federal level (except for fracturing activity involving the use of diesel). The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, but the final study has not yet been released. A committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation was introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. Wyoming has adopted regulations requiring us to provide detailed information about wells we hydraulically fracture in that state. Some states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations requiring disclosure of chemicals in fluids used in hydraulic fracturing or other restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; testing of nearby water wells; restrictions on access to, and usage of, water; and restrictions on the type of 23 Table of Contents chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. Any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing activities and thereby affect our determination of whether a well is commercially viable. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. We have conducted hydraulic fracturing operations on most of our existing wells, and we anticipate conducting hydraulic fracturing operations on substantially all of our future wells. As a result, restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce in commercial quantities and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Cyber-attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production and financial activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third party partners. Unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our exploration or production operations. Also, computers control nearly all of the oil and gas distribution systems in the United States and abroad, which are necessary to transport our production to market. A cyber-attack directed at oil and gas distribution systems could damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. While our operations and financial condition have not been materially and adversely affected by cyber-attacks, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such attacks and resulting losses in the future. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber-attacks. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to develop our existing reserves and to discover new oil and gas reserves. Our ability to continue exploration and development of our properties and to replace reserves may be dependent upon our ability to continue to raise significant additional financing, including debt financing or obtain other potential arrangements with industry partners in lieu of raising financing. Any arrangements that may be entered into could be expensive to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital in light of factors such as the market demand for our securities, the state of financial markets for independent oil and gas companies (including the markets for debt), oil and natural gas prices and general market conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our capital budget. We expect to continue using our bank credit facility to borrow funds to supplement our available cash flow. The loan commitment and aggregate amount of money we can borrow under the credit facility and from other sources is revised from time to time based on certain restrictive covenants. A change in our ability to meet the restrictive covenants might limit our ability to borrow. If this occurred, we may have to sell assets or seek substitute financing. We can make no assurances that we would be successful in selling assets or arranging substitute financing. For a description of the bank credit facility and its principal terms and conditions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our operations may be interrupted by severe weather or drilling restrictions. Our operations are conducted primarily in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. We also have properties in the north-central Pennsylvania area of the Appalachian Basin. The weather in these areas can be 24 Table of Contents extreme and can cause interruption in our exploration and production operations. Severe weather can result in damage to our facilities entailing longer operational interruptions and significant capital investment. Likewise, our operations are subject to disruption from winter storms and severe cold, which can limit operations involving fluids and impair access to our facilities. Unless we are able to replace reserves that we have produced, our cash flows and production will decrease over time. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and production will decline. We can give no assurance that we will be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including blowouts, fire, explosion, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, discharges of toxic gases, underground migration and surface spills or mishandling of fracture fluids, including chemical additives. The occurrence of any of these events with respect to any property we own or operate (in whole or in part) could have a material adverse impact on us. We and the operators of our properties maintain insurance in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be reasonable. However, insurance coverage is not always economically feasible and is not obtained to cover all types of operational risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact our results of operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with drilling, completion, production and transportation of, oil and natural gas. These risks include the necessity of spending large amounts of money for identification and acquisition of properties and for drilling and completion of wells. In the drilling and completing of exploratory or development wells, failures and losses may occur before any deposits of oil or natural gas are found and produced. The presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, blow-outs or accidents may cause such activity to be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our investment in such activity and possible liabilities. If oil or natural gas is encountered, there can be no assurance that it can be produced in quantities sufficient to justify the cost of continuing such operations or that it can be marketed satisfactorily. Our decision to drill a prospect is subject to a number of factors which may alter our drilling schedule or our plans to drill at all. A prospect is an area in which our geoscientists have identified what they believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of hydrocarbons. Our prospects are in various stages of review. Whether or not we ultimately drill our prospects depends on many factors, including but not limited to: receipt of additional seismic data or reprocessing of existing data; material changes in oil or natural gas prices; the costs and availability of drilling equipment; success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; the availability and cost of capital; changes in the estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; decisions of our joint working interest owners; and regulatory and permitting requirements. It is possible that these factors and others may cause us to alter our drilling schedule or determine that a prospect should not be pursued at all. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to record additional write downs of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. A separate cost center is maintained for expenditures applicable to each country in which we conduct exploration and/or production 25 Table of Contents activities. Under such method, the net book value of properties on a country-by-country basis, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. Discounted future net revenues are estimated using oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average price during the preceding 12-month period determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. We have limited control over activities conducted on properties we do not operate. We own interests in properties that are operated by third parties. The success, timing and costs of drilling, completion, and other development activities on our non-operated properties depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Because we have only a limited ability to influence and control the operations of our non-operated properties, we can give no assurances that we will realize our targeted returns with respect to those properties. We may fail to fully identify problems with any properties we acquire. We acquired a portion of our acreage position in Wyoming, Pennsylvania, Utah and Colorado through property acquisitions and acreage trades, and we may acquire additional acreage in these or other regions in the future. Although we conduct a review of properties we acquire which we believe is consistent with industry practices, we can give no assurance that we have identified or will identify all existing or potential problems associated with such properties or that we will be able to mitigate any problems we do identify. Our acquisitions may perform worse than we expected or prove to be worth less than what we paid because of uncertainties. Our acquisitions could also expose us to potentially significant liabilities. We make assumptions about many uncertain factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, expected timing of recovering acquired reserves, future commodity prices, expected development and operating costs, and other matters, many of which are beyond our control when we acquire oil and gas properties. Assumptions about uncertain factors may be wrong, and properties we acquire may perform worse than we expect, materially and adversely affecting our operations and financial condition. There is limited transportation and refining capacity for black wax crude oil produced from our properties in the Uinta Basin which may limit our ability to sell this production or to increase production in this area. In December 2013, we acquired oil and gas properties located in the Uinta Basin, Utah. The crude oil these properties produce is known as black wax crude because it has high paraffin content. Due to this high paraffin content, transportation options are limited, and most of the oil is transported by truck to refiners in the Salt Lake City, Utah area. The remainder of the production is transported by rail to markets outside of the Salt Lake City area. Future changes in regulations affecting transportation of crude oil by rail could increase the costs to the Company, and decrease the availability, of crude oil transportation by rail. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory transportation arrangements for this black wax crude may hinder access to markets, delay production or increase our costs. Without additional refining capacity or access to additional markets for such production, our ability to increase production from the Uinta Basin may be constrained. Limited refinery capacities in the Utah region, coupled with the potential for increased production in the Uinta Basin, may impact local marketability of a portion of our Utah oil and may cause us to pursue alternate transportation methods and sales outlets, such as rail transportation to markets on the east and west coasts, as 26 Table of Contents well as in the mid-continent. Although several refinery expansions have been announced or are underway in the Salt Lake City area to accept additional black wax crude, there is no assurance as to the ultimate added capacity, our ability to access any such capacity, or the timing of completion of such expansions. We may not be successful in securing alternative sales outlets for our Utah production. The availability of a ready market depends on a number of factors, including the general demand for and supply of oil and the proximity of alternative reserves to pipelines, rail transportation and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our black wax crude production will depend in substantial part on the availability and capacity of trucking and rail systems servicing the Uinta Basin and refineries capable of handling high paraffin crude, all of which are owned and operated by third parties. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of such markets or related transportation. Decreased access to oil markets or access to such markets on unacceptable terms could result in increased costs, decreased margins, decreased production, or other factors which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and operating cash flows. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except for statements of historical facts, all statements included in this document, including those statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “target”, “goal”, “plans”, “objective”, “should”, or similar expressions or variations on such expressions are forward-looking statements. The Company can give no assurances that the assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding: • our oil and natural gas reserve quantities, and the discounted present value of those reserves; • the amount and nature of our capital expenditures; • drilling of wells; • the timing and amount of future production and operating costs; • our ability to respond to low natural gas prices; • business strategies and plans of management; and • prospect development and property acquisitions. Some of the risks which could affect our future results and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: • any future global economic downturn; • general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and access to existing lines of credit; • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices; • the uncertainty of estimates of oil and natural gas reserves; • the impact of competition; • the availability and cost of seismic, drilling and other equipment; • operating hazards inherent in the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas; 27 Table of Contents • difficulties encountered during the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas; • difficulties encountered in delivering oil and natural gas to commercial markets; • changes in customer demand and producers’ supply; • the uncertainty of our ability to attract capital and obtain financing on favorable terms; • compliance with, or the effect of changes in, the extensive governmental regulations regarding the oil and natural gas business, including those related to climate change and greenhouse gases, disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, hydraulic fracturing and access to and the use of water, and financial derivatives and hedging activities; • actions of operators of our oil and natural gas properties; and • weather conditions. The information contained in this report, including the information set forth under the heading “Risk Factors,” identifies additional factors that could affect our operating results and performance. We urge you to carefully consider these factors and the other cautionary statements in this report. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we have no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has unresolved Staff comments with respect to its Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. The comments relate to our proved, undeveloped reserves under Rule 4-10(a)(31) of Regulation S-X and, in general, request explanations and supporting detail about the scheduling and reporting of our proved undeveloped reserves and changes to our proved undeveloped reserves year-to-year. In our responses, we have presented detailed explanations about the rigorous process we follow to ensure that our estimates of proved undeveloped reserves comply with Rule 4-10(a)(31), and we have provided detailed information explaining changes in our proved undeveloped reserves from year-to-year (e.g., adds, conversions, revisions and transfers). In these explanations, we have noted that the most significant cause of changes in our proved undeveloped reserves year-to-year is the volatility in natural gas prices coupled with the corresponding adjustments we have made to our drilling schedules and capital budgets. 