Risk Factors” contained in Item 1 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Item 7. We caution you that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. Business Overview We provide design, integration and optical manufacturing solutions (“OMS”) for optical networking components and subsystems that expand optical bandwidth, amplify optical signals, monitor and protect wavelength performance, redirect light signals, reshape light profile to enable extended signal reach and provide signal transmission and reception within an optical network. Our product portfolio includes solutions for next-generation, all-optical dense and coarse wavelength division multiplexing (“DWDM” and “CWDM,” respectively), optical amplification, switching and routing, monitoring and conditioning, dispersion management and line transmission applications. As a photonic foundry, we offer our customers expert OMS for the production and packaging of highly-integrated optical subsystems and turnkey solutions based upon a customer’s specific product design and specifications. Our broad line of products and services is designed to increase the performance of optical networks and enable optical system manufacturers to provide flexible and scalable bandwidth to support the increase of data traffic on the Internet and other public and private networks. We offer advanced and cost-effective optical-electrical components and subsystem manufacturing through our facilities in Zhuhai and Shanghai, China. In addition, we maintain optical-centric front-end design, application, and customer service functions at our headquarters in Fremont, California. Our customers include telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers located around the globe. Through internal research and development we have developed over 170 standard products that are sold or integrated into custom solutions. We provide customers with high quality optical subsystems and components that are used for bandwidth creation and management applied to all segments of the fiber optic network infrastructure including access, metro, and long haul. We build these elements to the exacting requirements of the world’s leading optical networking equipment companies, and we work closely with customers during the product design and development cycle. This provides us with the ability to respond to the volume production requirements of our customers when their systems are ready for commercial deployment. We support customers’ volume, quality, and time-to-market requirements. By combining in-house technical expertise with extensive micro-optic packaging and manufacturing capabilities, we are able to produce large volumes of customized and standardized subsystems and component solutions to meet the specific design needs of customers. Our U.S. headquarters are third-party certified to the ISO 9001 standard in research and manufacturing and our products meet the Telcordia compliance standards. Our manufacturing operations in Zhuhai and Shanghai, China are third-party certified to the TL9001, ISO14001 and ISO 9001-2000 standards. We were incorporated in California in September 1995 and reincorporated in Delaware in September 2000. We began delivering optical networking products to our customers in 1996. Our common stock has been 2 Table of Contents quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “OPLK” since our initial public offering in October 2000. Our corporate headquarters are located at 46335 Landing Parkway, Fremont, California 94538. Our website is available on the Internet at www.oplink.com. Our website address is given solely for informational purposes; we do not intend, by this reference, that our website should be deemed to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to incorporate the information available at our Internet address into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. These reports can also be obtained from the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. On January 1, 2001, we adopted a fiscal year which ends on the Sunday closest to June 30 of each year. Interim fiscal quarters will end on the Sunday closest to each calendar quarter end. In this report, for presentation purposes, we present each fiscal year as if it ended on June 30, and each fiscal quarter as if it ended on September 30, December 31 or March 31, as the case may be. For more information, please see Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included at the end of this report. Products and Technologies We provide a broad line of fiber optic subsystems and components designed to satisfy the needs of communications equipment suppliers. We categorize our products by the functionalities provided within a network, namely, bandwidth creation and bandwidth management. Some of our products have attributes that combine both of these functions. Some of our bandwidth creation and bandwidth management products utilize telecommunication interfaces to provide local or remote, reporting and control to enhance their function in an optical network. Sales of our bandwidth creation products accounted for 83%, 81% and 88% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Bandwidth Creation Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth creation products to expand the capacity and/ or extend the coverage of their customers’ networks. Other bandwidth creation products enable optical signals to travel along more complex network architectures such as mesh networks and metro networks, or enable optical signals to travel greater distances over traditional long haul networks. Wavelength Expansion Products. In fiber optic communications, different signals are transmitted over multiple wavelengths. With increases in the number of wavelengths and data rates, spacing between the wavelengths narrows and it becomes increasingly difficult to separate and direct them. We offer wavelength expansion products that are designed to enable the combination and separation of a particular wavelength in all parts of the network including emerging access and metro networks and traditional long haul networks. Wavelength expansion products include wavelength multiplexing (combining), de-multiplexing (separating), and wavelength interleaving, which combines light signals from two or more simultaneous sources over a single fiber. We offer the following products to handle these tasks: • Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexers. A dense wavelength division multiplexer, or DWDM, is a solution for scalable, reliable, protocol independent bandwidth creation. A DWDM multiplexer is an integrated optical module or subsystem that combines two or more wavelengths for transmission over a single fiber (multiplexing) or separates these wavelengths (demultiplexing) at the receiving end. Our DWDM module and subsystem solutions are derived from an array of high performance technologies including thin film filters and arrayed wave guides, or AWGs. Our solutions are available in a variety of channel spacings. 3 Table of Contents • Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexers. A coarse wavelength division multiplexer, or CWDM, is a solution for cost-effective bandwidth creation in the access, cable TV and metro environments. A CWDM multiplexer is an integrated optical module or subsystem that combines two or more wavelengths, at a channel spacing that is many times wider than for standard DWDM channel spacing for transmission over a single fiber (multiplexing) or separates these wavelengths (demultiplexing) at the receiving end. • Band Wavelength Division Multiplexers. Band wavelength division multiplexer, or BWDM, products help manage multiple International Telecommunication Union, or ITU, channels within Mux/ Demux or Optical Add/ Drop applications. Our BWDMs pass a band of channels while isolating the channels adjacent to the band of channels sent. BWDM products facilitate the design of flexible (pay as you grow) low loss architectures as well as enable the design of complex mesh and ring networks. We offer a variety of BWDM products at 50, 100 and 200 GHz spacing. • DWDM Interleavers. A DWDM interleaver is an optical component that combines light signals from two simultaneous sources over a single fiber, which effectively doubles the capacity of the optical network system, or separates a single light source into multiple signals. Optical Amplification Products. Optical fiber amplifiers are widely deployed in optical communications networks to enhance the optical signal power. Optical signals typically lose power and eventually are lost after traveling a long distance along an optical fiber along traditional long haul networks. In emerging access or metro networks, optical signals lose power at add drop nodes, which are those locations in a network where wavelength channels enter or exit the node. This power loss is referred to as attenuation. Through recent advances in technology, the optical signal can be amplified with Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers, or EDFAs, or with Raman amplifiers, neither of which require opto-electrical conversion. The amplifiers are arranged along fiber cable lines at regular intervals in long haul networks or at selected nodes in access and metro networks to enable the optical signal to reach its destination clearly. While amplifiers range in complexity, a typical amplifier consists of a fiber and a number of fiber optic components. We offer both EDFA and Raman amplification products including EDFA fiber amplifiers and the components used in EDFA and Raman amplifier designs. Our optical amplification products include the following: • Gain Blocks. Gain blocks are integrated optical subsystem building blocks consisting of fiber and fiber optic components used in fiber optic amplifiers to boost the amplitude of an incoming optical signal. • EDFAs. Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers are optical subsystems that employ gain blocks, advanced electronics, firmware and software to control the optical gain of an incoming optical signal. • WDM Pump/ Signal Combiners. Micro-optic WDM pump/signal combiners are components that provide power for the optical amplifier. They are used to efficiently combine light signals with pump laser sources. Pump lasers are active optical components used in optical amplifiers such as EDFAs to amplify or regenerate light signals that naturally suffer loss while traveling over distance within an optical network. • Integrated Hybrid Components. Optical amplifier systems can combine optical components, including isolators, tap couplers and WDM pump/signal combiners. The main advantage of hybrid components is that they minimize the amplifier package size, increase reliability and reduce manufacturing cost. • WDM Pump Combiners. WDM pump combiners are used to increase the power of an optical amplifier by combining multiple pump lasers into one common pump source for amplification. • Polarization Beam Combiners. Polarization beam combiners are optical components that combine two of the same or different wavelengths with opposing polarization to increase the power output of the optical amplifier. • Gain Flattening Filters. Gain flattening filters are used to ensure signals are amplified by equal amounts. Our thin film filter technology, or the technology in which layers of thin film separate optical 4 Table of Contents signals, employs multiple layers of optical materials on glass to adjust optical output at different wavelengths to meet the needs of next-generation high power amplifiers. • Isolators. Isolators are fiber optic devices that transmit light in only one direction, thus preventing a reflected light signal from returning to its laser source. Reflected light can interfere with a laser’s process and create noise, which can impair system performance in optical networks. • Tap Couplers. Tap couplers transfer optical signals between fibers. They are widely used for system monitoring purposes and have very low insertion loss, or the power loss incurred when adding additional components to a fiber cable. Bandwidth Management Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth management products to add intelligence to their systems, which allows communications service providers to monitor the performance, control the direction, and condition the amplitude of light signals throughout the optical network. Wavelength Performance Monitoring and Protection Products. The ability to monitor wavelengths within an optical network enables service providers to maintain quality of service even in the event of an interruption in the signal path, such as a cut in the fiber. It is significantly more difficult to monitor signal flow in optical systems as compared to electrical systems. Monitoring requires that optical signals be extracted from the fiber without interfering with the optical signal traveling through the same fiber. We offer the following products that enable service providers to monitor network performance and make necessary decisions for traffic flow and network efficiency: • Supervisory Channel WDM. Our supervisory channel WDM is an integrated component that separates the network supervisory channel from the signal channel that is used in monitoring the network performance. • Integrated WDM Monitor Arrays. Our integrated WDM monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network selective wavelength power monitoring. This module combines multiple network performance monitoring functions in a single module and integrates WDM filters and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not wavelengths are being transmitted properly through the network. • Integrated Tap Monitor Arrays. Our integrated tap monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network signal power monitoring. This module integrates a tap coupler, a device that splits the light power, and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not optical signals are being transmitted properly through the network. • Wavelength Protection Subsystems. Our multi-channel wavelength protection subsystems are integrated solutions that combine tap couplers, splitters, switches, electronics, firmware, software and third-party photo detectors. These subsystems integrate network switching protection functions and monitor optical signal quality such as optical power in response to unexpected disruption in the optical network. They provide redundant path protection with fast routing and switching with network fault management and diagnostic capability. Optical Switching and Routing Products. As optical networks become more complex, there is an increasing demand to provide switching and routing capability to direct optical signals across multiple points in the network. We supply optical fiber switching and routing products that provide all-optical signal switching 5 Table of Contents between fibers with up to eight different end destinations. Our optical switching and routing products include the following: • Switches. Optical switches are devices that can direct optical signals to different end destinations. • Optical Add/ Drop Multiplexers. Optical add/drop multiplexers, or OADMs, are used when part of the information from an optical signal carried on the network is demultiplexed, or dropped, at an intermediate point and different information is multiplexed, or added, for subsequent transmission. The remaining traffic passes through the multiplexer without additional processing. The OADM is typically used for rerouting a number of specific optical wavelengths with different end destinations. OADMs can also include other optical components such as optical conditioning products or optical monitoring products for increased functionality. • Reconfigurable OADMs. Reconfigurable OADMs combine OADM functionality, optical wavelength selective switching and conditioning products, electronic circuitry, integrated firmware and software to add remote configuration and provisioning flexibility to the network by allowing the dynamic add/drop of variable optical wavelengths having different amplitudes with different end destinations. • Circulators. Circulators consist of sophisticated micro-optic components that are used to direct optical signals between different fibers. Circulators are also used in optical amplifying applications and used in DWDM fiber grating based wavelength expansion products. Wavelength Conditioning Products. For reliable fiber optic communication systems, the light signal intensity needs to be controlled. For example, excess input power can overload the receivers and an optical attenuator is used to reduce the input signal to the level required by the receiver. Wavelength conditioning products are used in optical networks along with DWDM multiplexers and demultiplexers, optical amplifiers, and re-configurable optical add drop multiplexers to provide the power control functions. Our wavelength conditioning products include the following: • Variable Optical Attenuators. Variable optical attenuators, or VOAs, are optical devices that reduce the power of the optical signal in DWDM networks to ensure that all optical signals within a network have equal power. The amount of power reduction of a particular optical signal can be adjusted to match the power of other optical signals in the network thereby enhancing network performance and service quality. • Variable Multiplexers. Variable Multiplexers combine multiple ITU channel signals along with the function of adjusting the power level. The subsystems attenuate the power level of individual ITU signal to achieve equalization of the spectrum or blocking specific channel. • Dynamic Band Equalization Products. Dynamic band equalization products monitor and adjust power levels of multiple bands of ITU channels. These subsystems separate multiple ITU channels into bands of channels, and then monitor and control the power levels of these bands through standard telecommunication interfaces such as RS232 and then multiplex these multiple bands onto a single fiber. They are used for power equalization in various parts of the network including metro and long haul. Customers We sell our products worldwide to telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers around the globe. In certain cases, we sell our products to our competitors or other component manufacturers for their resale or integration into their own products. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we sold our products to over 223 companies worldwide. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 63%, 69% and 56% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Nortel Networks Corporation (“Nortel”), Flextronics Canada, Inc. (“Flextronics”) and Hua Wei Technologies Co. Ltd. each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. For fiscal 2005, primarily all of our shipments to Flextronics, a contract manufacturer, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by 6 Table of Contents Nortel. Nortel, Sanmina-SCI Corporation (“Sanmina”) and Marubun Corporation (“Marubun”) each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, a substantial portion of our shipments to Sanmina, a contract manufacturer, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Tellabs, Inc. Through Sanmina and through direct sales, Tellabs, Inc. accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, a substantial portion of our shipments to Marubun, one of our distributors, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Fujitsu Limited (“Fujitsu”) through Marubun. Through Marubun and through direct sales, Fujitsu accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Nortel, Adva AG Optical Networking and Marubun each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. A substantial portion of our shipments to Marubun during fiscal 2003 were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Fujitsu and NEC Corporation (“NEC”). Neither Fujitsu nor NEC accounted for greater than 10% percent of our revenues for fiscal 2003. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, although potentially not the same customers period to period. In addition, some of our customers are companies with which we presently compete or in the future may compete. See Note 2 “Concentration of Credit Risk,” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog We define backlog to include orders for which we expect to recognize revenues within the succeeding twelve months. Historically, through early calendar 2001, a substantial portion of our net revenues in any fiscal period has been derived from orders in backlog. However, due to the downturn in the fiber optics industry, we are substantially dependent upon orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. Therefore, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indicator of our future revenues for the next year. Sales are made pursuant to purchase orders, which are frequently subject to revision or cancellation. Because of the possibility of changes in delivery or acceptance schedules, cancellations of orders, returns or price reductions, our backlog, as of any particular date, may not be representative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Marketing, Sales and Customer Support We market and sell our products through both direct sales and distribution channels, including one domestic and six international sales representatives and distributors. Our sales representatives and distributors are independent organizations within North America, Europe and Asia. As of June 30, 2005, we employed 24 people in sales, marketing and customer service and support in the U.S. and 8 people in sales and marketing in our Zhuhai, China facility, who manage key customer accounts and support our direct sales force, sales representatives and distributors. Our marketing team promotes our products within the communications industry as well as gathers and analyzes market research. Our marketing professionals help us to identify and define next-generation products by working closely with our customers and our research and development engineers. They also coordinate our participation in trade shows and design and implement our advertising effort. Product Development As of June 30, 2005, we had 106 engineers, 19 of whom hold Ph.D. degrees, involved in research and development of our products. Our engineering team has extensive design, packaging, processing, electrical, mechanical, firmware and software experience in the fields of fiber optic components, integrated optic interfaces and systems. Our primary component development center is located in Zhuhai, China, our subsystem development center is located in Fremont, California, and our access market system development center is located in Shanghai, China. Our research and development expense, including non-cash compensation expense, was $7.2 million, $7.5 million and $8.8 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We spend a substantial proportion of our financial resources on our research and development budget and staff to enhance our current fiber optic subsystems and components and to develop new technologies and products to serve the current and next-generation communication markets. 7 Table of Contents Manufacturing We currently manufacture substantially all of our subsystems and components at our manufacturing facilities in China. We maintain a pilot line at our headquarters in Fremont, California. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003, we completed the transfer of manufacturing processes and assembly operations to our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone, China from the United States. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone maintains complete in-house manufacturing capabilities including component and module design, integration, production and testing. We plan to continue to invest resources in manufacturing management, engineering and quality control. We also plan to continue to develop automated manufacturing systems to provide higher throughput, improve yields and reduce manufacturing costs. We own our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone totaling approximately 667,000 square feet. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone is used for administration, manufacturing, research and development and employee living quarters. We currently lease 170,000 square feet of our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone to third parties and will attempt to lease to third parties the remaining areas that are in excess of our current requirements. We lease two facilities located in Shanghai, China, which are used for administration, manufacturing and research and development. Our Shanghai facilities total approximately 55,000 square feet. The leases for these two facilities expire in July 2008. A number of critical raw materials used in manufacturing our products are acquired from single or limited source suppliers. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of those materials may result in delays, increased costs and reductions in our product shipments. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. To date, such laws and regulations have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the foreseeable future. Quality We have established a quality management system to assure that the products we provide to our customers meet or exceed industry standards. This system is based on the international standard ISO 9001. Our U.S. headquarters have been modeled after the ISO 9001-1994 quality standard in research and manufacturing since July 1998. Our manufacturing operations at Zhuhai and Shanghai, China are both third-party certified to the ISO 9001-2000 standard. In addition, our Zhuhai facility has recently been third-party certified to both the TL 9000 Telecommunications quality standard and the ISO 14001 Environmental management standard. Competition The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. Our overall competitive position depends upon a number of factors, including: • selling price; • the quality of our manufacturing processes; • the breadth of our product line; • availability, performance and reliability of our products; • our ability to participate in the growth of emerging technologies; • the ability to win designs through prototyping; 8 Table of Contents • the compatibility of our products with existing communications networks; and • manufacturing capacity and capability. We believe that our principal competitors are the major manufacturers of optical subsystems and components, including both vendors selling to third parties and business divisions within communications equipment suppliers. Our principal competitors include Avanex Corporation, DiCon Fiberoptics, Inc., Furukawa Electrical Co., Ltd., FDK Corporation, NEL Hitachi Cable, Santec Corporation, Tyco Electronics and JDS Uniphase Corporation. We believe that we primarily compete with diversified suppliers, such as JDS Uniphase, Santec and FDK, for the majority of our product line and to a lesser extent with niche players that offer a more limited product line. We also believe that JDS Uniphase has the greatest market share for fiber optic components and subsystems. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, engineering and manufacturing resources as well as greater name recognition and stronger customer relationships. Competitors in any portion of our business also may rapidly become competitors in other portions of our business. In addition, our industry has recently experienced significant consolidation, and we anticipate that further consolidation will occur. This consolidation has increased, and will likely continue to increase, competition. Intellectual Property As of June 30, 2005, we have been granted 72 issued patents, have 6 allowed applications awaiting issuance and have 29 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for various technologies and products, including DWDM interleavers, DWDM subsystems, multi-channel optic filter arrays, high reliability fused couplers, circulators, compact optical switches and polarization beam combiners. The terms of our patents are computed in accordance with United States federal patent statutes. In general, this means that a patent will have a term expiring twenty years from its filing date. All issued patents for our core technology will not expire for at least a decade. In addition, we currently have 15 issued patents and 25 pending patent applications in the People’s Republic of China, 23 of which are counterparts to U.S. patents or patent applications. While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law and restrictions on disclosure to protect our technology, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to the success of our business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, various unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including China, do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the optical communications industry. We expect that fiber optic subsystems and components may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. In addition, we believe that many of our competitors in the optical communications industry have filed or intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology on which they may claim our technology infringes. For example, we were previously a defendant in a patent infringement dispute with Chorum Technologies, Inc. and a lawsuit filed by Oz Optics Limited et al. alleging trade secret misappropriation and other related claims. We cannot make any assurances that other third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to our technology. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could seriously harm our financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Employees As of June 30, 2005, we had 79 full-time employees located in the United States and 1,467 full-time employees located in China. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. All of our employees in Zhuhai are represented by a labor union formed on November 6, 2001, pursuant to the requirements of the China’s Labor Union Law. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Financial Information About Geographic Areas The geographic breakdown of revenues by customer destination is as follows (in thousands): Years Ended June 30, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues: United States $ 5,323 $ 3,534 $ 9,751 Europe 6,905 6,063 4,308 Asia 11,255 8,998 7,244 Canada 10,872 15,733 1,440 Totals $ 34,355 $ 34,328 $ 22,743 The breakdown of property, plant and equipment, net by geographical location is as follows (in thousands): June 30, 2005 2004 United States $ 7,037 $ 4,500 People’s Republic of China 18,260 21,926 Totals $ 25,297 $ 26,426 Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of August 31, 2005: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 54 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Bruce D. Horn 54 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Chi-Min (James) Cheng 59 General Manager, China/Macau River Gong 42 Vice President, Sales Joseph Y. Liu, one of our founders, has served as our Chief Executive Officer and President since October 2002, and has served as a member of our Board of Directors since our inception in 1995. Previously, Mr. Liu served as our Chief Executive Officer from September 1999 to November 2001, and served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors from our inception in 1995 through May 2000 and again from November 2001 to August 2002. From 1994 to 1995, Mr. Liu was the General Partner of Techlink Technology Ventures. Prior to 1994, Mr. Liu spent ten years as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Techlink Semiconductor and Equipment Corp., a semiconductor equipment and technology company. Mr. Liu also serves as a director of InterVideo, Inc., a DVD software provider. Mr. Liu received his B.S. from Chinese Cultural University, Taiwan and his M.S. from California State University, Chico. Bruce D. Horn has served as our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since April 2000. Prior to joining Oplink, Mr. Horn was a consultant at The Brenner Group, a consulting firm, from February 2000 to April 2000. From January 1993 to February 2000, Mr. Horn was the Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and from March 1991 to January 1993 he was Director of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, of 10 Table of Contents Larscom Incorporated, a telecommunications company. Mr. Horn received his B.A. in Accounting from the University of Northern Iowa, and his M.B.A. in Finance from California State University, East Bay. Chi-Min (James) Cheng has served as our General Manager, China/ Macau since May 2005. From June 2003 to February 2005, Mr. Cheng was as a consultant for Stratum Technologies, Inc. in Cleveland, Ohio. From June 1997 to June 2003, Mr. Cheng served as the Country Manager and Factory General Manager at RAE Systems Inc. in Shanghai (Jiading) China. Mr. Cheng received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Taugtong University, Taiwan. River Gong has served as our Vice President of Sales since February 2003. From January 2001 to February 2003, Ms. Gong served as our Sr. Director of Sales, from May 1999 to January 2001 she was Director of Sales, and from January 1998 to May 1999 she was Sales Manager. Prior to joining Oplink, Ms. Gong was Division Manager and Sales Manager of MP Fiber Optics (now Global Opticom), a fiber optics company, from January 1995 to December 1997. Prior to that, she was an architect in China for five years. Ms. Gong received her B.S. in Architecture from Harbin Institute University. Directors The following table sets forth certain information regarding our directors as of August 31, 2005: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 54 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Herbert Chang 43 Chairman of the Board of Directors Chieh Chang 53 Director Jesse W. Jack 69 Director Leonard J. LeBlanc 64 Director Joseph Y. Liu’s biography is set forth above under “Executive Officers.” Herbert Chang has been a member of our Board of Directors since August 1996 and became the chairman of the board in August 2002. Since April 1996, Mr. Chang has been President of InveStar Capital Inc., a technology venture capital management firm based in Taiwan. From 1994 to 1996, Mr. Chang was Senior Vice President at WK Technology Fund, a venture capital fund. Mr. Chang serves on the board of directors of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a manufacturer of integrated circuits for communications-related markets, Vialta, Inc., a home entertainment and communications products company and Monolithic Power Systems, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Chang received his B.S. from National Taiwan University and his M.B.A. from National Chiao-Tung University in Taiwan. Chieh Chang has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 1995. From February 2000 to February 2003, Mr. Chang has served as Chief Executive Officer of Programmable Microelectronics Company, Inc., a fabless semiconductor design company. From April 1992 to August 1996, Mr. Chang was the Director of Technology at Cirrus Logic, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Chang serves on the board of directors of Genesis Microchip, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Chang received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the National Taiwan University and his M.S. in Electrical Engineering from University of California, Los Angeles. Jesse W. Jack has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2002. Since January 2003, Mr. Jack has been self-employed as an attorney with The Law Offices of Jesse Jack. He is also the Vice President and General Counsel for I-Bus Corporation, a privately held company. From 1994 until January 2003, Mr. Jack was a partner in the law firm of Jack & Keegan, a California Limited Liability Partnership. Mr. Jack served on the board of directors of The Parkinson’s Institute from 1988 through 2000. Mr. Jack received his B.S. from California State University, San Jose and his J.D. from Hastings College of Law. Leonard J. LeBlanc has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2000. Since August 2000, Mr. LeBlanc has been on the Board of Directors of eBest Inc., a private software company providing collaborative business management solutions. From February 2001 to September 2003, Mr. LeBlanc was Vice 11 Table of Contents President of Corporate Development and Acting Chief Financial Officer of eBest Inc. Mr. LeBlanc was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Vantive Corporation, a customer relationship management software and solution company, from August 1998 to January 2000. From March 1996 to July 1997, Mr. LeBlanc was the Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer at Infoseek Corporation, an Internet search and navigation company. From September 1993 to December 1994, Mr. LeBlanc served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration of GTECH Corporation, a manufacturer of lottery equipment and systems. From May 1987 to December 1992, Mr. LeBlanc served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation software company. Mr. LeBlanc also serves on the board of directors of AXT, Inc., a company involved with the manufacture and sale of high-performance compound semiconductor substrates. Mr. LeBlanc received his B.S. and M.S. from the College of Holy Cross, and his master’s degree in finance from George Washington University. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks discussed in “Business” or “Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our business is subject to the risks set forth below. We have incurred significant losses, and our failure to increase our revenues while controlling costs and operating expenses could prevent us from achieving profitability. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in 1995 and expect to incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $2.6 million, $6.4 million and $36.8 million for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. With the exception of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 when we were profitable due to a one time benefit of $1.3 million from the resolution of vendor liabilities, we have not achieved profitability on a quarterly or annual basis since inception. As of June 30, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $227.1 million. Moreover, we will need to generate significantly greater revenues while controlling costs and operating expenses to achieve profitability. Our revenues may not grow in future quarters, and we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. We may also continue to incur significant operating losses if the markets for our products do not grow. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm our operating results. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 63%, 69% and 56% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Nortel Networks Corporation (“Nortel”), Flextronics Canada, Inc. (“Flextronics”) and Hua Wei Technologies Co. Ltd. each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. For fiscal 2005, primarily all of our shipments to Flextronics, a contract manufacturer, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Nortel. Nortel, Sanmina-SCI Corporation (“Sanmina”) and Marubun Corporation (“Marubun”) each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, a substantial portion of our shipments to Sanmina, a contract manufacturer, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Tellabs, Inc. Through Sanmina and through direct sales, Tellabs, Inc. accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, a substantial portion of our shipments to Marubun, one of our distributors, were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Fujitsu Limited (“Fujitsu”) through Marubun. Through Marubun and through direct sales, Fujitsu accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Nortel, Adva AG Optical Networking and Marubun each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. A substantial portion of our shipments to Marubun during fiscal 2003 were to fulfill purchase orders placed by Fujitsu and NEC Corporation (“NEC”). Neither Fujitsu nor NEC accounted for greater than 10% percent of our revenues for fiscal 2003. We expect that the majority of our 12 Table of Contents revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, although potentially not the same customers period to period. Our revenues generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not reach or exceed historic levels in any future period. We may not be the sole source of supply to our customers, and they may choose to purchase products from other vendors. Furthermore, the businesses of some of our existing customers are currently experiencing slow growth following a protracted downturn, which is resulting, in some instances, in significantly decreased sales to these customers and harming our results of operations. Loss or cancellations of orders from, or any further downturn in the business of, any of our customers without an increase in sales from other customers could harm our business. Our dependence on a small number of customers may increase if the fiber optic components and subsystems industry and our other target markets continue to consolidate. Because none of our customers are obligated to purchase our products, they may cancel or defer their purchases at any time and on short notice, which could harm our operating results. We are substantially dependent on orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. Accordingly, our customers: • may stop purchasing our products or defer their purchases at any time without penalty; • are free to purchase products from our competitors; • are not required to make minimum purchases; and • may cancel orders that they place with us. As a result, we cannot rely on orders in backlog as a reliable and consistent source of future revenue. Sales to any single customer may and do vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. This means that customers who account for a significant portion of our revenues in one quarter may not and often do not place any orders in the succeeding quarter, which makes it difficult to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner in response to further revenue shortfalls. This can result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and, therefore, may vary from public market analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to drop. It is difficult to forecast our revenues accurately. Moreover, our revenues, gross margins, expenses and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The factors, many of which are more fully discussed in the other risk factors below, that are likely to cause these variations include, among others: • economic downturn and uncertainty of the fiber optic industry; • economic conditions specific to the communications and related industries and the development and size of the markets for our products; • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products; • our inability to cut costs quickly in the event of market or demand downturns, due to the fact that a high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term; • changes in customer, geographic or product mix and the average selling prices of our products; • cancellations or delays of orders or shipment rescheduling by our customers; 13 Table of Contents • the ability of our manufacturing operations in China to timely produce and deliver products in the quantity and of the quality our customers require; • the availability of raw materials used in our products or increases in the price of these raw materials; • our ability to successfully improve our manufacturing capabilities and achieve acceptable production yields in our facilities in China; • the tendency of communications equipment suppliers to sporadically place large orders with short lead times; • competitive factors, including introductions of new products, new technologies and product enhancements by competitors, consolidation of competitors in the fiber optic components and subsystems market and pricing pressures; • our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced optical networking products in a timely manner and in production quantities without defects or other quality issues; • with respect to new products, a mismatching of research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter with revenues that are not recognized, if at all, until a subsequent quarter when the new products are introduced and commercially accepted; and • costs associated with, and the outcomes of, any intellectual property or other litigation to which we are, or may become, a party. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be meaningful. Moreover, if we experience difficulties in any of these areas, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Also, it is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. If we fail to effectively manage our manufacturing capability, produce products that meet our customers’ quality requirements and achieve acceptable production yields in China, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of products that meet all of our customers’ order requirements in a timely manner, which would harm our operating results. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our facilities in Zhuhai and Shanghai, China. The quality of our products and our ability to ship products on a timely basis may suffer if we cannot effectively maintain the necessary expertise and resources to effectively manage our manufacturing activities in China. We have in the past received unexpectedly large numbers of product returns due to manufacturing defects in our products. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced greater than anticipated manufacturing defects in our subsystem products and, as a result, increased our warranty reserves. We have identified and believe we have remedied these problems. However, if we cannot prevent these problems from reoccurring, we may lose customers and revenue, and our operating results will be severely harmed. Because manufacturing our products involves complex and precise processes and the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Factors that affect our manufacturing yields include the quality of raw materials used to make our products, the quality of workmanship and our manufacturing processes. Our or our suppliers’ inadvertent use of defective materials could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields. Furthermore, because of the large labor component in, and complexity of, our manufacturing processes, quality of workmanship is critical to achieving acceptable yields. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified personnel to produce our products cost-effectively with the quality and in the quantities required by our customers. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers could also impact our yields. In some cases, existing manufacturing techniques, which involve substantial manual labor, may not allow us to meet our manufacturing yield goals cost-effectively so that we maintain acceptable gross margins while meeting the 14 Table of Contents cost targets of our customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation in order to increase our gross margins and help achieve the targeted cost levels of our customers. We may not achieve manufacturing cost levels that will allow us to achieve acceptable gross margins or fully satisfy customer demands. Additionally, our competitors are automating their manufacturing processes. If we are unable to achieve higher levels of automation and our competitors are successful, it will harm our gross margins. Additional risks associated with managing our manufacturing processes and capability in China include: • a potential lack of availability of qualified management and manufacturing personnel; • our ability to maintain quality; • our ability to effectively manage headcount, particularly if we undertake to expand our manufacturing operations; • our ability to procure the necessary raw materials and equipment on a timely basis; and • our ability to quickly and efficiently implement an adequate set of financial controls to effectively track and control inventory levels and inventory mix and to accurately predict inventory requirements. Communications equipment suppliers typically require that their vendors commit in advance to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time. We may not be able to pursue many large orders from these suppliers if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities to enable us to commit to provide them with their specified quantities of products. If we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy a customer’s anticipated needs, we likely will lose the order and the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a lengthy period of time. Furthermore, if we fail to fulfill orders to which we have committed, we will lose revenue opportunities and our customer relationships may be harmed. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer’s equipment, which could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and substantial costs. Our products are deployed in large and complex optical networks and must be compatible with other system components. Our products can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in these networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover errors, defects or incompatibilities in our products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. Our products may also have errors, defects or incompatibilities that are not found until after a system upgrade is installed. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced greater than anticipated defects in our subsystem products and, as a result, increased our warranty reserves. Errors, defects, incompatibilities or other problems with our products could result in: • loss of customers; • loss of or delay in revenues; • loss of market share; • damage to our brand and reputation; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by our customers; and • increased insurance costs. If any of these occur, our operating results could be harmed. 15 Table of Contents We depend on the growth and success of the communications industry, which has experienced a significant economic downturn as well as rapid consolidation and realignment, including outsourced manufacturing, and may not continue to demand fiber optic products at historical rates. We depend on the continued growth and success of the communications industry, which depends, in part, on the continuing growth of the Internet as a widely-used medium for commerce and communication and the continuing demand for increased bandwidth over communications networks. As a result of the effects of the economic downturn and overall reduced capital spending in the communications industry since year 2000, our ability to acquire new customers or to obtain additional orders from existing customers has been impeded. If these market conditions continue for a prolonged period, our ability to sustain or grow our business in the future may be substantially diminished compared to our historical rate of growth. Moreover, although we have noticed a general increase in spending activity in the communications industry over the past several quarters, we cannot assure you that this spending activity will continue at its current rate or at all, or that we will benefit from this spending activity. Furthermore, the rate at which communications service providers and other fiber optic network users have built new fiber optic networks or installed new systems in their existing fiber optic networks has fluctuated in the past and these fluctuations may continue in the future. These fluctuations may result in reduced demand from historical rates for new or upgraded fiber optic systems that utilize our products and, therefore, may result in reduced demand for our products. The communications industry is also experiencing rapid consolidation and realignment, as industry participants seek to capitalize on the rapidly changing competitive landscape developing around the Internet and new communications technologies such as fiber optic and wireless communications networks. As the communications industry consolidates and realigns to accommodate technological and other developments, our customers may consolidate or align with other entities in a manner that harms our business. Our customers’ continued outsourcing may result in their utilizing large well-established contract manufacturers to provide final system assembly, rather than utilizing us for final system assembly. We may therefore be required to provide lower level components to these contractor manufacturers rather than final system assembly to our current customers, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and lower gross margins and profits. Furthermore, these contract manufacturers may seek other source of components, which could harm our operating results. In the event that the communications industry grows and we are unable to sell and deliver the products our target customers require, our operating results may be adversely affected. Because we depend on third parties to supply some of our raw materials and equipment, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials and equipment, or these materials may become unavailable due to technological changes, which could limit our ability to fill customer orders and harm our operating results. Difficulties in obtaining raw materials in the future may delay or limit our product shipments, which could result in lost orders, increase our costs, reduce our control over quality and delivery schedules and require us to redesign our products. We depend on third parties to supply the raw materials and equipment we use to manufacture our products. To be competitive, we must obtain from our suppliers, on a timely basis, sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices. We obtain most of our critical raw materials from a single or limited number of suppliers and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with them. As a result, our suppliers could terminate the supply of a particular material at any time without penalty. Due to the effects of the severe downturn in the optical and communications industries, manufacturers and vendors that we rely upon for raw materials may scale back their operations or cease to do business entirely as a result of financial hardship or other reasons. In addition, our suppliers could terminate the supply of a particular material due to technological changes, which would require us to redesign our products, identify and qualify acceptable replacement suppliers. However, we cannot be certain that we could obtain qualifications for such replacements from our customers. Furthermore, some of our suppliers are competitors who may chose not to supply raw materials to us in the future, or who may sell their capability to parties that may be adverse to our 16 Table of Contents goals. In addition, some of the equipment we use is relatively complex and, in periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of this equipment could be as long as six months. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect our business and operating results, impair the reliability of our financial statements, cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, harm our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting (“Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting”) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K each year. Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that our management has identified. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the Form 10-K. Although our management and independent accountants have concluded that no material weaknesses in our Company’s internal control over financial reporting exist as of June 30, 2005, we can not assure you that this will be the case in the future periods. If, in the future, our management is unable to assert in the Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting to be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for any fiscal year that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of such fiscal year, or if the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is fairly stated or it is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, the reliability of our consolidated financial statements could be impaired, we may be unable to timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year and the Company’s reputation could be harmed, any of which could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, if we are not otherwise able to maintain adequate compliance with of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could become subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The Nasdaq Stock Market. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, for purposes of our 2005 fiscal year quarterly and annual financial reports, we were not required to expense stock-based compensation charges in connection with stock option grants to our employees and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. However, there have been recent changes to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidelines relating to accounting for stock-based compensation that will increase our compensation expense effective as of the start of our 2006 fiscal year on July 1, 2005, which could make our net income/loss less predictable in any given reporting period and could harm our business. To mitigate future impact, we may revise our equity compensation program, which may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. We compete in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to compete successfully or develop new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance, our revenues could decline, which would harm our operating results. The market for fiber optic components and subsystems is intensely competitive. We believe that our principal competitors are the major manufacturers of optical components and subsystems, including vendors selling to third parties and business divisions within communications equipment suppliers. Many of our current 17 Table of Contents and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing, manufacturing and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and to changes in customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, or to deliver competitive products at lower prices. Competitors in any portion of our business may also rapidly become competitors in other portions of our business. In addition, our industry has recently experienced significant consolidation, and we anticipate that further consolidation will occur. This consolidation has further increased competition. Several of our existing and potential customers are also current and potential competitors of ours. These companies may develop or acquire additional competitive products or technologies in the future and thereby reduce or cease their purchases from us. In light of the consolidation in the optical networking industry, we also believe that the size of the optical component and subsystem suppliers will become increasingly important to our current and potential customers in the future. Our current and potential suppliers may also consolidate with our competitors and thereby reduce or cease providing materials and equipment to us. Also, we expect to pursue optical contract manufacturing opportunities in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, and the competitive pressures we face may result in lower prices for our products, loss of market share, the unavailability of materials and equipment used in our products, or reduced gross margins, any of which could harm our business. The communications industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. As a result, the introduction of new products incorporating new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing products obsolete. For example, new technologies are being developed in the design of wavelength division multiplexers that compete with the thin film filters that we incorporate in our products. These technologies include arrayed waveguide grating and planar lightwave circuits. Additionally, a new technology is being developed in the design of equalization and switching, known as microelectro-mechanical systems, that will compete with the bulk micro-optics that we incorporate into our product. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate market needs and to develop products that address those needs. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner will harm market acceptance and sales of our products. In this regard, we are currently developing bandwidth creation products as well as bandwidth management products. If the development of these products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to develop and introduce these products to market, our revenues could suffer and we may not gain market share. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce these new products, the new products may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Furthermore, we have implemented, and may continue to implement in the future, significant cost-cutting measures such as reductions in our workforce, including reductions in research and development and manufacturing personnel, that may weaken our research and development efforts or cause us to have difficulty responding to sudden increases in customer orders. In addition, we recently expanded our operations to include optical manufacturing services. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our manufacturing capabilities to produce quality products in a cost-effective manner or gain market acceptance with respect to any optical manufacturing service offerings. In addition, because profit margins with respect to optical contract manufacturing services may be smaller than the margins applicable to our current and past product offerings, our gross margins may decline and our financial results may be harmed as a result of our provision of such services. Disruption to commercial activities in the United States or in other countries, particularly in China, may adversely impact our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside the United States and a substantial portion of our operations are located in China. Our international operations expose us to a number of additional risks associated with international operations, including, without limitation: • disruptions to commercial activities or damage to our facilities as a result of natural disasters, political unrest, war, terrorism, labor strikes, and work stoppages; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in optical network technology; • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical systems or networks; • disruptions in the transportation of our products and other risks related to the infrastructure of foreign countries; • economic instability. • any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza and other epidemics or illnesses; and • power shortages at our manufacturing facilities in China, which may lead to production delays. To the extent that such disruptions interfere with our commercial activities, our results of operations could be harmed. Substantially all of our manufacturing operations are located in China and are subject to the laws and regulations of China. Our operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in the laws and regulations of China, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. China’s central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, which would require additional expenditures. In April 2004, Chinese leaders noted concerns regarding China’s recent economic growth and indicated, without providing specific details, that they may take very forceful measures to bring the economy under control. On October 28, 2004, the People’s Bank of China, China’s central bank, announced that it would raise both lending and deposit interest rates 0.27 percentage points effective October 29, 2004. China’s economy differs from the economies of many countries in terms of structure, government involvement, specificity and enforcement of governmental regulations, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, self-sufficiency and rate of inflation, among others. Our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed by changes in the political, economic or social conditions in China. In addition, events in China over which we have no control, such as political unrest, terrorism, war, labor strikes and work stoppages, could disrupt our operations. There is currently political tension between the United States and North Korea and the United States and China, which could, in either case, result in hostilities or a deterioration in relations that would impact our trade relations with China. There is also significant tension between China and Taiwan, which could result in hostilities or lead to a breakdown in trade relations between China and the United States. Additionally, China continues its condemnation of the United States’ pledge of military support to Taiwan, which could lead to hostilities. Moreover, anti-Japanese sentiment in China may lead to business disruptions. If hostilities or other events cause a disruption in our operations, it would be difficult for us to establish manufacturing operations at an alternative location on comparable terms. We are exposed to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls that could adversely impact our operating results. A significant portion of our operations are conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, particularly in Chinese Renminbi. Our operating results are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, in July 2005, China uncoupled Renminbi from the dollar and will let it float in a narrow band against a basket of foreign currencies. The move revalues Renminbi by 2.1% against the U.S. dollar; however, it is uncertain what further adjustments may follow. The Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rate could float, and the Renminbi could appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. For example, if the Renminbi had been revaluated at the beginning of the fiscal year at 8.11 Renminbi to the US Dollar instead of the actual rate of 8.28, the impact on the company’s reported results would have been to increase net loss by approximately $75,000. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the government of China to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi 19 Table of Contents against the U.S. dollar. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position. To reduce our gains and losses associated with converting foreign currencies into United States dollars, we may elect in the future to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure. However, we cannot be certain that any such hedging activities will be effective, or available to us at commercially reasonable rates. As a result, we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses. Moreover, China’s government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Any shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends to us or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations, such as payments to us for components which we export to them and for technology licensing fees. Such shortages may also cause us to experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit needed foreign currency. Under the current foreign exchange control system, sufficient foreign currency is presently available for our Chinese subsidiaries to purchase imported components or to repatriate profits to us, but as demands on China’s foreign currency reserves increase over time to meet its commitments, sufficient foreign currency may not be available to satisfy China’s currency needs. Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to convert and remit our sales received in Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Under existing foreign exchange laws, Renminbi held by our Chinese subsidiaries can be converted into foreign currencies and remitted out of China to pay current account items such as payments to suppliers for imports, labor services, payment of interest on foreign exchange loans and distributions of dividends so long as our subsidiaries have adequate amounts of Renminbi to purchase the foreign currency. Expenses of a capital nature such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies, however, require approval from appropriate governmental authorities before Renminbi can be used to purchase foreign currency for remittance out of China. This system could be changed at any time by executive decision of the State Council to impose limits on current account convertibility of the Renminbi or other similar restrictions. Moreover, even though the Renminbi is intended to be freely convertible on current accounts, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is responsible for administering China’s foreign currency market, has a significant degree of administrative discretion in interpreting and implementing foreign exchange control regulations. From time to time, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange has used this discretion in ways that effectively limit the convertibility of current account payments and restrict remittances out of China. Furthermore, in many circumstances the State Administration of Foreign Exchange must approve foreign currency conversions and remittances. Under the current foreign exchange control system, sufficient foreign currency may not always be available in the future at a given exchange rate to satisfy our currency demands. If tax benefits available to our subsidiaries located in China are reduced or repealed or our China subsidiaries fail to meet the requirements for utilizing such tax benefits, our financial condition and operating results could suffer. Our subsidiaries located in China enjoy tax benefits in China that are generally available to foreign investment enterprises, including full exemption from national enterprise income tax for two years starting from the first profit-making year and a 50% reduction in the national income tax rate for the following three years. In addition, local enterprise income tax is often waived or reduced during this tax holiday/incentive period. Furthermore, under current regulations in China, foreign investment enterprises that have been accredited as technologically advanced enterprises are entitled to an additional three-year reduction in national income tax by 50%, with a provision that the income tax rate as so reduced may not be lower than 10%. However, the Chinese government recently announced that preferential tax treatment for foreign enterprises may be repealed beginning in 2006. In order to qualify for such benefits, a foreign investment enterprise must be operated continuously for ten years. In the past our subsidiaries in China have qualified for preferential tax treatment and have not been obligated to pay income tax. However, if our subsidiaries fail to meet the operation requirement due to events outside of their control, they may be required to pay for income tax on 20 Table of Contents past profits. If China elects to repeal or reduce the tax benefits available to us in the future or we fail to continue to qualify for the tax benefits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our wavelength expansion products have accounted for a majority of our revenues, and our revenues could be harmed if the price of, or demand for, these products further declines or if these products fail to achieve broader market acceptance. We believe that our future growth and a significant portion of our future revenues will depend on the commercial success of our wavelength expansion products. Customers that have purchased wavelength expansion products may not continue to purchase these products from us. Although we currently offer a broad spectrum of products, sales of our wavelength expansion products accounted for a majority of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. These products include, among others, dense wavelength division multiplexers (“DWDMs”). These products accounted for 63%, 65% and 67% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Any decline in the price of, or demand for, our wavelength expansion products, or their failure to achieve broader market acceptance, could harm our revenues. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices (“ASPs”) as a result of increasing competition and declining market demand. We anticipate that such ASPs will continue to decrease in the future in response to product and new technology introductions by competitors, price pressures from significant customers and greater manufacturing efficiencies achieved through increased automation in the manufacturing process. These declining ASPs have contributed and may continue to contribute to a decline in our gross margins, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries, such as China, where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. As of June 30, 2005, we had 72 issued patents, 6 allowed applications awaiting issuance and 29 pending patent applications in the United States. In addition, we had 15 issued patents and 25 pending patent applications in the People’s Republic of China, 23 of which are counterparts to U.S. patents or patent applications. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of the attention of our technical and management personnel. We may be involved in intellectual property disputes in the future, which will divert management’s attention and could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the communications and fiber optic components and subsystems markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors and academic institutions. In addition, from time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims could be time consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur 21 Table of Contents significant expenses. We have no means of knowing that a patent application has been filed in the United States until the patent is issued. Optical component suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. From time to time we may be involved in lawsuits as a result of alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. For example, in December 2001, Oz Optics Limited, OZ Optics, Inc. and Bitmath, Inc. (collectively, “OZ”) filed a lawsuit against us and four individuals, including our former Vice President of Product Line Management, alleging trade secret misappropriation and other related claims. Under the complaint, the plaintiffs sought damages against the four individuals in the amounts of approximately $17,550,000, and against us in the amount of approximately $1,500,000, as well as enhanced damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorney fees, and other relief. We settled the lawsuit against us in August 2004 and OZ agreed to dismiss the case against us with prejudice. However, we cannot assure you that OZ will not choose to pursue further litigation against us in the future. In addition, to our knowledge, OZ is continuing to pursue its lawsuit against all of the defendants other than us, and we may be obligated to indemnify our former Vice President of Product Line Management for certain amounts in connection with her prior employment with us. Both prosecuting and defending lawsuits involving our intellectual property may be costly and time consuming and may also divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Intellectual property litigation is often highly complex and can extend for a protracted period of time, which can substantially increase the cost of litigation. Accordingly, the expenses and diversion of resources associated with intellectual property litigation to which we may become a party could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation also could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial money damages; or • redesign the products that use the technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies, our operating results may be harmed. The communications industry is evolving rapidly and is highly competitive. Accordingly, we have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business or technology, could cause diversion of management’s time and other resources or disrupt our operations. Future acquisitions could result in: • additional operating expenses without additional revenues; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • amortization of other intangibles; • research and development write-offs; and • other acquisition-related expenses. 22 Table of Contents Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or joint ventures with our operations, and we may not receive the intended benefits of any future acquisition or joint venture. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 we recorded an impairment charge of $322,000 based on the amounts by which the carrying value of purchased intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Gigabit Optics Corporation and Accumux Technologies, Inc. exceeded their fair value. This charge negatively affected our operating results for fiscal 2005, and any of the factors listed above could harm our operating results in future periods. We are the target of a securities class action complaint and are at risk of securities class action litigation, which will likely result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. We are one of hundreds of defendants in a consolidated set of class action lawsuits, filed by plaintiffs (the “Plaintiffs”) against hundreds of public companies (the “Issuers”) that went public in the late 1990s and early 2000s (collectively, the “IPO Lawsuits”). In June 2003, Issuers and Plaintiffs reached a tentative settlement agreement and entered into a memorandum of understanding, providing for, among other things, a dismissal with prejudice and full release of the Issuers and their officers and directors from all liability resulting from Plaintiffs’ claims, and the assignment to Plaintiffs of certain potential claims that the Issuers may have against the underwriters. In addition, the tentative settlement guarantees that, in the event that the Plaintiffs recover less than $1 billion in settlement or judgment against the underwriter defendants in the IPO Lawsuits, the Plaintiffs would be entitled to payment by each participating Issuer’s insurer of a pro rata share of any shortfall in the Plaintiffs’ guaranteed recovery. In such event, our obligation would be limited to the amount remaining under the deductible of $1.0 million of our insurance policy. In September 2003, in connection with the tentative settlement, our officers and directors who entered tolling agreements with the Plaintiffs (described above) agreed to extend those agreements so that they would not expire prior to any settlement being finalized. In June 2004, we executed a settlement agreement with the Plaintiffs. On February 15, 2005, the Court issued a decision certifying a class action for settlement purposes and granting preliminary approval of the settlement subject to modification of certain bar orders contemplated by the settlement. In addition, the settlement is still subject to statutory notice requirements as well as final judicial approval. Pending final approval of the settlement, we continue to believe that the action against us is without merit and, we intend to defend against it vigorously. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycle requires us to incur substantial costs to make a sale, and if the sale does not occur then we will have incurred these expenses without obtaining increased sales. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process prior to placing an order. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from nine to twelve months and sometimes longer. During the period that our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time supplies. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, our customers’ product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. Long sales cycles may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire additional personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, finance, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. In addition, we depend substantially upon the continued services of key management personnel at our Chinese subsidiaries. None of 23 Table of Contents our officers or key employees are bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and these personnel may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. In addition, our management team has experienced significant personnel changes over the past two years and may continue to experience changes in the future. If our management team experiences further changes and does not work effectively together, it could substantially harm our business. Because some of our third-party sales representatives and distributors carry products of one or more of our competitors, they may not recommend our products over competitors’ products. Our sales representatives and distributors are independent organizations that generally have exclusive geographic territories and generally are compensated on a commission basis. We are currently migrating some of our larger customers to direct sales. We expect that we will continue to rely on our independent sales representatives and distributors to market, sell and support many of our products for a substantial portion of our revenues. Some of our third-party sales representatives and distributors carry products of one or more of our competitors. As a result, these sales representatives and distributors may not recommend our products over competitors’ products, which could decrease our sales and harm our business. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to liability. Our failure to comply with a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States and China could subject us to criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations that regulate the export of products and disclosure of technical information to foreign countries and citizens. In some instances, these laws and regulations may require licenses for the export of products to, and disclosure of technology in, some countries, including China, and disclosure of technology to foreign citizens. With the exception of two commodity classifications we obtained from the Department of Commerce in 2001 with respect to some of our current products, we have generally relied on self-classification in determining whether an export license is required and have determined that export licenses are not required. As we develop and commercialize new products and technologies, the list of products and technologies subject to U.S. export controls changes, or in the event that the relevant export authorities disagree with the outcome of our self-classification, we may be required to obtain export licenses or other approvals with respect to those products and technologies and may possibly be subject to penalties under applicable laws. We cannot predict whether these licenses and approvals will be required and, if so, whether they will be granted. The failure to obtain any required license or approval could harm our business. We ship inventory and other materials to and from our facilities in China and, as a result, are subject to various Chinese and U.S. customs-related laws. Given the geographic distance and changing regulations and governmental standards, it can be difficult to monitor and enforce compliance with customs laws. For example, there have been inventory and other materials shipped to and from our facilities in China for which, upon arrival of the goods, there was not sufficient documentation to demonstrate the items comply with all local customs regulations. The U.S. Customs Service may also require us to revise product classifications from time to time with respect to various items imported into the United States. In such cases we may be required to pay any increase in customs duty to account for the difference in duty actually paid by Oplink and the duty owed under the amended product classification, and may also be subject to penalties under applicable laws. In addition, from time to time we enter into transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries to establish sales prices for internal distributions of goods that have the effect of allocating taxes between the parent corporation and our subsidiaries. In general, these transfer prices have not been approved by any governmental entity and, therefore, may be challenged by the applicable tax authorities. China tax authorities have recently announced that they plan to increase transfer pricing audits, and have specifically identified telecommunications companies, among others, as priority targets. 24 Table of Contents We employ a number of foreign nationals in our U.S. operations and, as a result, we are subject to various laws related to the status of those employees with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. We also send our U.S. employees to China from time to time and for varying durations of time to assist with our Chinese operations. Depending on the durations of such arrangements, we may be required to withhold and pay personal income taxes in respect of the affected U.S. employees directly to the Chinese tax authorities, and the affected U.S. employees may be required to register with various Chinese governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations or any other applicable laws and regulations could subject us to liability. In addition, we are subject to laws relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, if we fail to store, use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. In addition, we could be required to pay for the cleanup of our properties if they are found to be contaminated, even if we are not responsible for the contamination. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and are likely to continue to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required and will continue to require changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure or compliance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires the SEC to promulgate new rules on a variety of subjects, in addition to rule proposals already made, and we may need to make further changes in response to such new rules. In addition, Nasdaq has revised its requirements for companies that are Nasdaq-listed, such as the Company. We expect these developments (i) have required and may continue to require us to devote additional resources to our operational, financial and management information systems procedures and controls to ensure our continued compliance with current and future laws and regulations, (ii) will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage, increase our level of self-insurance, or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage, and (iii) could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. For example, to implement plans and measures to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other related rules, we expended significant resources and incurred significant expenses. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Insiders continue to have substantial control over us, which may negatively affect your investment. Our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, as of June 30, 2005, approximately 13.2% of our outstanding shares. As a result, these persons and/or entities acting together will be able to substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying a change in control, which change in control may be favored by our other stockholders, or entrenching current management. Because of the early stage of our business and the rapid changes taking place in the fiber optics industry, we expect to experience significant volatility in our stock price, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Because of the early stage of our business and the rapid changes taking place in the fiber optics industry, we expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. For example, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high sales price of $40.81 to a low sales price of $0.53 during the 25 Table of Contents period from October 3, 2000, the date of our initial public offering, to June 30, 2005. These fluctuations may occur in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • economic downturn in the fiber optics industry; • preannouncement of financial results; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and our failure to meet estimates; • changes in market values of comparable companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any loss by us of a major customer; • the outcome of, and costs associated with, any litigation to which we are or may become a party; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; and • future sales of our common stock. The price of our common stock may also be affected by general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in price during any given period of time and could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law and other arrangements may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent any change in control, which could negatively affect your investment. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions permit us to: • issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • eliminate the right of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and • impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, on March 18, 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a share purchase rights plan, which has certain additional anti-takeover effects. Specifically, the terms of the plan provide for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq National Market, the liquidity of our common stock would be seriously impaired and we would become subject to various statutory requirements, which would likely harm our business and place downward pressure on our common stock price. We may be subject to delisting from The Nasdaq National Market from time to time to the extent our stock price falls below the minimum bid price requirements or we otherwise do not satisfy other requirements for continued listing. For example, in October 2002, we received a determination letter from The Nasdaq National Market that advised us that our common stock no longer met the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq National Market. The notification was based on the failure by us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 as required by The Nasdaq National Market’s listing maintenance standards. In May 2003, The Nasdaq National Market confirmed that we had complied with all requirements necessary for continued listing on The Nasdaq National Market and that our common stock would continue to be listed on The Nasdaq National Market. There can be no assurance, however, that The Nasdaq National Market will not again initiate delisting procedures against us if we cannot maintain compliance with the listing maintenance standards. In the event that we fail to meet the continued listing maintenance standards, our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq National Market and trade on The Nasdaq SmallCap Market or, possibly, the over-the-counter bulletin board, commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” Such alternatives are generally considered less efficient markets and could seriously impair the liquidity of our common stock and limit our potential to raise future capital through the sale of our common stock, which could materially harm our business. If we are delisted from The Nasdaq National Market, we will also face a variety of legal and other consequences that will likely negatively affect us for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, the following: • the state securities law exemptions available to us would be more limited and, as a result, future issuances of our securities may require time-consuming and costly registration statements; • due to the application of different securities law exemptions and provisions, we may be required to amend our stock option and stock purchase plans and comply with time-consuming and costly administrative procedures; • the coverage of us by securities analysts may decrease or cease entirely; • we may lose current or potential investors and customers; • we may be unable to regain or maintain compliance with the listing requirements of either The Nasdaq SmallCap Market or The Nasdaq National Market; and • we may lose our exemption from the provisions of Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code which imposes aspects of California corporate law on certain non-California corporations operating within California. As a result, (i) our Board of Directors would no longer be classified and our stockholders would elect all of our directors at each annual meeting, (ii) our stockholders would be entitled to cumulative voting, and (iii) we would be subject to more stringent stockholder approval requirements and more stockholder-favorable dissenters’ rights in connection with certain strategic transactions. In addition, some companies that face delisting as a result of bid prices below The Nasdaq National Market’s listing maintenance standards seek to maintain their listings by effecting reverse stock splits. At our annual stockholders’ meeting in November 2004, our stockholders approved a proposal to permit the Board of Directors to effect, at its sole discretion, a reverse split of our common stock at any time prior to our next annual stockholders’ meeting. There is no assurance, however, that effecting a reverse stock split (if our Board of Directors elects to effect a split) would result in a sustained increase in the stock price and, as a result, our stock price may be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents 