ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our profitability is subject to the risks described under this section on "Risk Factors" described below. Although the following are not necessarily the only ones facing our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks: Risks Related to our Industry In recent years, imports of steel into the United States have adversely affected, and may yet again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which would impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States as a result of excess world supply, have in recent years exerted, and may again in the future exert, downward pressure on U.S. steel prices and significantly reduce our sales, margins and profitability. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong and is periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries. Greater steel exports to the United States tend to occur at depressed prices when steel producing countries experience periods of economic difficulty, decreased demand for steel products or excess capacity. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of U.S. steel prices in some recent years have been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. However, while some tariffs and quotas are currently in effect for certain steel products imported from a number of countries that have been found to have been unfairly pricing steel imports to the U.S., many of these are set to expire shortly or are likely to be repealed. For example, the International Trade Commission in December 2006, as part of its five year review cycle of various steel import duties, voted to revoke all tariffs and countervailing duties on carbon steel plate from 16 countries, and voted to end tariffs on corrosion resistant galvanized steel sheet imported from Canada, France, Australia and Japan. When such tariffs or duties expire or if others are further relaxed or 23 repealed, or if relatively higher U.S. steel prices enable foreign steelmakers to export their steel products to the United States, even despite the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could again create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. China's current steelmaking overcapacity coupled with a reduction or slowdown in China's steel consumption could have a material adverse effect on domestic and global steel pricing and could result in increased steel exports into the United States. A significant factor in the worldwide strengthening of steel pricing over the past several years has been the explosive growth in Chinese steel consumption, which had until recently vastly outpaced that country's capacity to produce steel in sufficient quantity to serve its internal demand, particularly during 2004. The shortage of Chinese domestic steel supply resulted not only in heightened Chinese demand for imported steel and other raw materials, with a consequent upward spiral in worldwide steel pricing, but also led to a rapid and significant expansion of steel production capacity in China. That, in addition to the existence of a large amount of outdated, inefficient and government subsidized production capacity, has resulted in a situation in which China's steel producing capacity currently substantially exceeds that country's demand for certain steel products. A combination of a slowdown in China's economic growth rate and its consumption of steel, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, has caused a reduction in, and could result in a substantial weakening of, both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. Should Chinese steelmaking capacity further increase or its demand weaken, China might not only become a net exporter of steel but many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output currently feeds China's steel import needs could find their way into the U.S. market, through increased steel imports, thus causing an erosion of margins and a reduction in pricing. In fact, in February 2007, the United States initiated legal action against China before the World Trade Organization, alleging that Chinese government subsidies and tax laws give Chinese steel mills and unfair advantage, and the European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries has petitioned the European Union Commission to take anti-dumping action against Chinese imports. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy, including crude oil prices, may constrain operation levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials, the principal raw materials being scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron or pelletized iron. Although our planned vertical integration into ironmaking, through our Mesabi Nugget project, and our entrance into the metals recycling business, through our acquisition of OmniSource Corporation, may enable us to be our own source for some of our metallics requirements, we will still need to rely on other metallics and raw material suppliers, as well as general industry supply conditions. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Steel producers also consume large amounts of energy, inasmuch as mini-mills melt steel scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to heat steel billets for rolling into finished products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are all subject to volatile market conditions, often affected by weather conditions as well as political and economic factors beyond our control. Additionally, much of our finished steel products are typically delivered by truck, and rapid increases in the price of fuel attributable to increases in crude oil prices will have a negative impact on our costs and many of our customers' financial results which could result in reduced margins and declining demand for our products. 24 Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy have increased significantly, in many cases by a greater margin than corresponding price increases for the sale of steel products. Our inability to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel products, or our inability to pass on all or any substantial part of such cost increases through scrap or other surcharges or to provide for our customers' needs because of the potential unavailability of key raw materials or other inputs, may result in production curtailments or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry, the scrap metal recycling industry and some of the industries we serve. The steel manufacturing business and the scrap metal recycling business are both cyclical in nature and the price of the steel we make or the steel scrap we utilize to manufacture that steel may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. With our acquisition of OmniSource, a significant portion of our revenues and our operating results will also be dependent upon both ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal sales to other steel mills and foundries for use in their manufacturing operations. The timing and magnitude of these price fluctuations are difficult to predict and may directly affect our product mix, production volumes and our sales and earnings. The sale of our manufactured steel products is directly affected by demand for our products in other cyclical industries, such as the automotive, oil and gas, gas transmission, residential and commercial/industrial construction, commercial equipment, rail transportation, appliance, agricultural and durable goods industries. Currently, the domestic automotive industry, which is a major consumer of new steel and a major generator of steel scrap, is suffering from a substantial downturn. Continued economic difficulties, stagnant economies, supply/demand imbalances and currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could further decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. We are also particularly sensitive to trends and events, including strikes and labor unrest that may adversely impact these industries. These industries are significant markets for our products and are themselves highly cyclical. Similarly, but not necessarily paralleling the price fluctuations in the steel business, the purchase prices for automobile bodies and various other grades of obsolete and industrial scrap, as well as the selling prices for processed and recycled scrap metals we plan to utilize in our own manufacturing process or we plan to resell to others through our Omnisource facilities, are or may be highly volatile and beyond our control. As a metals recycler, we may attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices by adjusting the scrap metal purchase prices we would pay, but our ability to do this may be limited by competitive or other factors and this, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Some of our operations entail significant risk of injury or death. Steelmaking and the collection, processing and transportation of scrap metal, by reason of the nature of the machinery and processes utilized, are activities that present inherent dangers of injury or death to employees, customers or visitors, in spite of safety precautions, training and compliance with federal, state and local health and safety regulations. While we have in place and intend to continuously maintain policies and procedures to minimize these risks, we may nonetheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for an injury or death, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Existing laws or regulations which affect both our steelmaking and our scrap processing operations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, may have a 25 material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to comprehensive local, state, federal and international statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others: •the acceptance, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous, and Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA") waste; •the discharge of materials into air; •the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; •the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; •the restoration of natural resource damages; and •the protection of our employees' health and safety. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. Our manufacturing and recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as industrial waste or hazardous waste. For example, our minimills generate electric arc furnace dust (EAF dust), which the EPA and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste. EAF dust requires special handling, recycling or disposal. In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our scrap metal recycling facilities are automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of unrecyclable material known as shredder fluff. After the segregation of ferrous and saleable non-ferrous metals, shredder fluff remains. We, along with others in the recycling industry, interpret Federal regulations to require shredder fluff to meet certain criteria and pass a toxic leaching test to avoid classification as a hazardous waste. We also endeavor to remove hazardous contaminants from the feed material prior to shredding. As a result, we believe the shredder fluff we generate is not normally considered or properly classified as hazardous waste. If the laws, regulations or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder fluff, we may incur additional significant expenditures. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot predict whether such costs can be passed on to customers through product price increases. We may also be required to conduct additional clean up at sites where we have already participated in remediation efforts or to take remediation action with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations. In addition, we may be required to pay for a portion of the costs of clean up or remediation at sites we never owned or on which we never operated if we are found to have arranged for treatment or disposal of hazardous substances on the sites. OmniSource has received notices from the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("USEPA"), state agencies or third parties that it has been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigation and cleanup of landfills or other sites where its material was shipped. In most cases, many other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") enables USEPA and state agencies to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites which pose serious threats to the environment or public health. In certain circumstances, a potentially responsible party can be held jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup. In other cases, a party who is liable may only be liable for a divisible share. Liability can be imposed even if the party shipped materials in a lawful manner at the time of shipment and the liability for investigation and cleanup costs can be significant, particularly in cases where joint and several liability may be imposed. 26 Because CERCLA can be imposed retroactively on shipments that occurred many years ago, and because USEPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that present problems to public heath or the environment, we can provide no assurance that we will not become liable in the future for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of CERCLA waste sites. CERCLA, including the Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1999, limits the exposure of scrap metal recyclers for sales of certain recyclable material under certain circumstances. However, the recycling defense is subject to conducting of reasonable care evaluations of current and potential consumers. Risks Relating to our Business Our senior secured credit agreement contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility. Restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements, including our senior secured credit agreement and any future financing agreements, may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Specifically, these agreements restrict our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make distributions with respect to our capital stock; •repurchase or redeem capital stock; •make some investments; •create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •make some capital expenditures; •enter into transactions with affiliates or related persons; •issue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries; •sell or transfer assets; and •participate in some joint ventures, acquisitions or mergers. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants could cause a default under our senior secured credit agreement and other debt. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers and scrap processors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. The global markets in which steel companies and scrap processors conduct business are highly competitive and are becoming even more so due to increasing consolidation in the steel industry and in the scrap industry. Increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The global steel industry has historically suffered from substantial over-capacity, and excess capacity in some of our products will intensify price competition for such products. Conversely, the global demand for steel scrap has caused and may continue to cause large amounts of U.S. scrap to be exported abroad, thereby creating a U.S. scrap undersupply and a corresponding increase in the cost and decrease in the availability of scrap. This could cause our steelmaking operations to reduce the price for our products or to suffer an increase in the cost of scrap 27 and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We compete primarily on the basis of quality and the ability to meet our customers' product needs, delivery schedules and price, and some of our competitors may have advantages due to greater capital resources, different technologies, lower raw material and energy costs or favorable exchange rates. We may be unable to pass on increases in the cost of steel scrap and other raw materials to our customers which would reduce our earnings. If we are unable to pass on higher steel scrap and other raw material costs to our customers we will be less profitable. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short-term, to recover the costs of increases in scrap and other raw material prices. Our principal raw material is scrap metal derived primarily from junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, railroad track materials, agricultural machinery and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. The prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. The prices for scrap have varied significantly, may vary significantly in the future and do not necessarily fluctuate in tandem with the price of steel. Moreover, some of our integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. In addition, our operations require substantial amounts of other raw materials, including various types of pig iron, alloys, refractories, oxygen, natural gas and electricity, the price and availability of which are also subject to market conditions. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum and plastics (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. Equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steelmaking equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and this equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns, as well as other unusual and unplanned maintenance requirements. Our manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, customer service levels and financial results. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy subjects us to various risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other businesses and steel assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks: •the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources than us; •the inability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition; 28 •the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing businesses; •the potential disruption of ongoing businesses; •the diversion of resources; •the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •the difficulty of managing the growth of a larger company; •the risk of entering markets in which we have little experience; •the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial, or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; •the risk of becoming more highly leveraged; •the risk of contractual or operational liability to other venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; •the inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; and •the difficulties of terminating joint ventures or strategic alliances. These transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not our sales and earnings may be significantly reduced. There are risks associated with the development and operation of new businesses or acquisitions. We are normally in the process of examining a number of new businesses or potential acquisitions. On July 2, 2007, we acquired The Techs for approximately $373.4 million including expenses. On September 20, 2007, we announced that we are moving forward with our Mesabi Nugget iron-making project to construct the world's first commercial iron-making facility to use Kobe Steel Company's ITmk3® iron-making process, an undertaking involving an investment of approximately $240 million. And on October 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of OmniSource Corporation, one of the largest scrap processing, brokerage and industrial scrap management companies in North America, for a purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion, which included the assumption and payment of certain OmniSource debt at closing. The success of any future business or acquisition will depend substantially on our ability to manage the acquired operations successfully and to integrate it with our existing operations in an efficient and effective manner. If we are unable to manage or integrate new operations successfully, our financial results could suffer. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the potential assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential risk of increasing the amount of our outstanding indebtedness and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. Technology, operating and start-up risks associated with our announced Mesabi Nugget project may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits and could result in a loss of our investment. While we and certain other current and former joint venture partners built and operated a successful small scale pilot project in Minnesota using Kobe Steel's proprietary ITmK3's iron-making process to produce a cost effective iron nugget product, which we plan to utilize as a scrap substitute feed-stock in our steel making operations, we have no assurance that the full scale commercial plant we 29 recently announced, in which we will be the dominant investor and owner, will be successful. Although, we believe that a full scale commercial plant should be capable of consistently producing high-quality iron nuggets in sufficient quantities and at a cost that will compare favorably with the cost of steel scrap and scrap substitute products, including pig iron, there can be no assurance that these expectations can be achieved. We anticipate the capital costs of this project to be approximately $240 million. If we encounter cost overruns, construction delays or systems or process difficulties during or after start-up, the anticipated capital costs could materially increase, the expected operating cost benefits from the development of this iron nugget product could be diminished or lost, and we could also lose our investment in the project. Moreover, we may undertake certain ancillary ventures related to the iron-making process, such as the mining and concentrating of taconite ore, a business in which we have no experience and that could entail substantial additional investment with no guarantees of success. We may not be able to negotiate some future labor contracts on acceptable terms, which could result in strikes or labor actions. Approximately 14% of our employees are represented by unions. These employees are at our Steel of West Virginia location and at eleven of our OmniSource's forty-two facilities. As agreements with those unions expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of such agreements on terms acceptable to us. Any failure to reach agreement could result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 