RISK FACTORS Set out below is a discussion of certain factors which could affect the Group future results and financial position and cause them to be materially different. The factors discussed below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties because there may be risks and uncertainties of which the Group is not aware or which the Group now does not consider significant but which in the future may be of greater significance. Risks concerning borrower credit quality and general economic conditions are inherent in the Group’s business. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group’s businesses. Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Group’s borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in Irish, UK or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic risks in the financial systems, could reduce the recoverability and value of the Group’s assets and require an increase in Group’s level of provisions for bad and doubtful debts. An adverse change in economic conditions, particularly in Ireland, could also adversely affect the level of banking activity and the Group’s interest and other income. Market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, bond and equity prices and other market factors are inherent in the Group’s business. The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the euro-sterling and euro-dollar, affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings reported by the Group’s non-euro denominated businesses. The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which the Group is exposed. However, it is difficult to predict changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Group’s financial performance and business operations. See Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Risk Management and Control” for a discussion on these risks. Operational risks are inherent in the Group’s business. The Group’s business depends on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately. Losses can result from inadequate or failed internal control processes, and systems, human error, fraud or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions and substantial resources are dedicated to developing efficient procedures and training to staff, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely certain that such procedures will be effective. See Item 11 — “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Risk Management and Control — Operational risk”. The Group’s businesses are subject to substantial legal, regulatory and governmental requirements and oversight. The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which the Group operates. The nature and impact of these changes are unpredictable and outside the control of the Group. Changes in supervision and regulation, in particular in Ireland and the UK, could materially affect the Group’s business, the products and services offered or the value of assets. In recent times there have been significant regulatory changes in Ireland, the UK and the US which have resulted in increased compliance responsibilities. In the past year in particular there has been a marked increase in the cost and resources required to manage these changes across different jurisdictions and the Group has a number of separate projects underway related to these changes. 15 Table of Contents Risks associated with strategic decisions regarding organic growth, the competitive environment and potential acquisitions. The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources developing strategic plans for organic growth and identifying possible acquisitions. If the outcome of these plans do not match expectations, the Group’s earnings may not develop as forecasted. In addition, the market for financial services within which the Group operates is highly competitive; the Group’s ability to generate an appropriate return for its shareholders depends significantly upon management’s response to the competitive environment. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview” for additional information. The Group’s insurance businesses are subject to inherent risk regarding claims provisions. Claims in the Group’s life assurance businesses may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience arising from changes in demographic developments, mortality and morbidity rates and other factors outside the Group’s control. Such changes could affect the profitability of current and future insurance products and services. 