ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Economic Weakness May Harm Our Operating Results and Financial Condition Our results of operations are dependent, to a large extent, upon the state of the economy. Economic weakness and uncertainty may result, in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, and earnings or growth rates. Continued adverse economic conditions may decrease our customers’ demand for our products and services or impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. In addition, many state and municipal governments including public education who are our customers are experiencing financial difficulties which are causing budget shortfalls and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. If there are significant reductions in funding by the federal government to state and municipal governments, demand for our products and services may be adversely effected. As a result, our revenues could decrease and reserves for our credit losses and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We Depend on Having Creditworthy Customers to Avoid an Adverse Impact on Our Operating Results and Financial Condition Our financing and technology segments require sufficient amounts of debt and equity capital to fund our equipment purchases. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the required capital for our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to changes, if any, in our lenders’ willingness to provide financing for different, particularly lower, credit quality lessees. As of March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had reserves for credit losses of $5.1 million, $5.6 million and $2.8 million, respectively. The reserve for credit losses as of March 31, 2013 and 2012 included a specific reserve of $2.8 million and $2.9 million, respectively, due to a customer that had filed for bankruptcy in May 2012. If We Do Not Reserve Adequately for Our Credit Losses Our Earnings May be Adversely Affected Our reserve for credit losses reflects management’s judgment of the potential loss from our accounts and notes receivable and minimum lease payments associated with our investments in direct finance and sales-type leases. We base our judgment on the nature and financial characteristics of our obligors, general economic conditions and our bad debt experience. We also consider delinquency rates and the value of the collateral underlying the finance receivables. We cannot be certain that our reserve for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. Costs to Protect Our Intellectual Property May Affect Our Earnings The legal and associated costs to protect our intellectual property may significantly increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may deem it necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and significant expenses could be incurred with no certainty of the results of these potential actions. Costs relative to lawsuits are usually expensed in the periods incurred and there is no certainty in recouping any of the amounts expended regardless of the outcome of any action. We incurred $3.3 million, $6.0 million, and $10.5 million in legal and other fees during the years ended March 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, related to protecting our intellectual property. We May Experience A Reduction in Incentives Offered to Us by Our Vendors That Would Affect Our Earnings We receive payments and credits from vendors, including consideration pursuant to volume sales incentive programs, volume purchase incentive programs, shared marketing expense programs and early pay discounts. These programs are usually of finite terms and may not be renewed or may be changed in a way that has an adverse effect on us. Vendor funding is used to offset, among other things, inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of net sales or purchases, growth rate of net sales or purchases and marketing programs. If we do not grow our net sales over prior periods or if we are not in compliance with the terms of these programs, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by vendors. We may not continue to receive such incentives or may not be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. Any sizeable reduction in, the discontinuance of, a significant delay in receiving or the inability to collect such incentives, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest partners, including Cisco Systems and Hewlett Packard, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of vendors, including the elimination of funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, vendor incentives earned decreased slightly as a percent of our consolidated sales of product and services. More specifically, the change in the amounts of vendor incentives earned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 resulted in a 0.1% decrease in gross margin for products and services. The change in the amount of vendor incentives earned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 resulted in a decrease to our gross margins for products and services of 0.3%; the change in incentives resulted in an increase in gross margins 0.4% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. If We Lost Several of Our Larger Customers Our Earnings May be Affected The contracts for the provision of products from us to our customers are generally non-exclusive agreements without volume purchase commitments that are terminable by either party upon 30 days’ notice. Either the loss of our largest customer or several of our other larger customers, or the failure of such customers to pay amounts due to us, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For the year ended March 31, 2013, sales to a large telecommunications company were approximately 14% of total revenues, all of which related to our technology segment. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. Changes in Accounting Rules May Adversely Affect Our Future Financial Results We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Products and services, and the manner in which they are bundled, are technologically complex and the characterization of these product and services require judgment in order to apply revenue recognition policies. Mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition polices. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in noncash changes and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. In addition, any change in accounting standards may influence our customers’ decision to purchase from us or finance transactions with us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We May Be Required to Take Additional Impairment Charges for Goodwill or Other Intangible Assets Related to Acquisitions We have acquired certain portions of our business and certain assets through acquisitions. Further, as part of our long-term business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies or assets. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the book value of the assets acquired as goodwill or intangible assets, and we may be required to account for similar premiums paid on future acquisitions in the same manner. Under the applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to annual review and evaluation for impairment, whereas intangible assets are amortized over the life of the asset. Changes in the business itself, the economic environment (including business valuation levels and trends), or the legislative or regulatory environment may trigger a review and evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment outside of the normal review periods. These changes may adversely affect either the fair value of the business or the fair value of our individual reporting units and we may be required to take an impairment charge. If market and economic conditions deteriorate, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record impairment charges to the extent the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds the fair value of our overall business. Such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our net earnings during the period in which the charge is taken. As of March 31, 2013, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $33.0 million. 15 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Realize Our Entire Investment in the Equipment We Lease The realization of equipment values (residual values) during the life and predominantly at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in our leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on the equipment, excessive use of the equipment, or other factors, would adversely affect the recoverability of the estimated residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values are dependent on the manufacturer’s or vendor’s warranties, reputation and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Direct financing leases bear less risk because contractual payments cover approximately 90% or more of the equipment’s lease cost at inception. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment’s value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. We Depend on Third-Party Companies to Perform Some of Our Obligations to Our Customers, Which if Not Performed Could Cause Significant Disruption to Our Business We rely on arrangements with third parties to perform certain services for our customers, which, if not performed in accordance with the terms of the agreement, could result in significant disruptions or costs to our organization, including damaging customer relationships, if these third parties do not meet their obligations or maintain adequate service levels. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as FedEx and United Parcel Service, for the delivery of our products from us and our vendors to our customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. The Soundness of Financial Institutions With Which We Have Relationships Could Adversely Affect Us We have relationships with many financial institutions, including the lender under our credit facility, and, from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Some of our balances that we maintain with various financial institutions may exceed the $250,000 maximum insured deposit amount by the FDIC. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, could result in losses or defaults by these institutions. In the event that the volatility of the financial markets adversely affects these financial institutions or counterparties, we or other parties to the transactions with us may be unable to access credit facilities or complete transactions as intended, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in the IT Industry and/or Rapid Changes in Product Standards May Result in Reduced Demand for the IT Hardware, Software and Services We Sell Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products, upgrades or methods of distribution. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, product enhancements and new distribution methods or channels, each of which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. Sales of product and services can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our total revenues, if we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes. We Rely on Inventory and Accounts Receivable Financing Arrangements for Working Capital and Our Accounts Payable Processing The loss of the technology segment’s credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and the operational function of our accounts payable process. Our credit agreement contains various covenants that must be met each quarter. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those covenants and failure to do so may limit availability of, or cause us to lose, such financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available to us in the future on acceptable terms. 16 Table of Contents We May Not Adequately Protect Ourselves Through Our Contract Vehicles or Insurance Policies Our contracts may not protect us against the risks inherent in our business including, but not limited to, warranties, limitations of liability, human resources and subcontractors, related claims, patent and product liability, and financing activities. Despite the non-recourse nature of the loans financing certain of our activities, non-recourse lenders have, in the past, brought suit when the underlying transaction turns out poorly for the lenders. We have vigorously defended such cases in the past and will do so in the future, however, we are subject to such suits and the cost of defending such suits due to the nature of our business. We Rely on a Small Number of Key Vendors and Do Not Have Long-term Supply or Guaranteed Price Agreements or Assurance of Stock Availability with Our Vendors A substantial portion of our sales of product and services are dependent on a small number of key manufacturers including Cisco Systems and Hewlett Packard. Products manufactured by Cisco Systems represented approximately 48%, 45% and 40% of our total sales of product and services for the years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Products manufactured by Hewlett Packard represented approximately 11%, 15% and 19% of our total sales of product and services for the years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our industry frequently experiences periods of product shortages from our vendors as a result of our vendors’ difficulties in projecting demand for certain product sold by us, additional trade law provisions or regulations, additional duties, tariffs or other charges on imports or exports, natural disasters affecting our suppliers’ facilities, and significant labor disputes. As we do not stock inventory that is not related to an order we have received from our customer, we are dependent upon the supply of products available from our vendors in order to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis. The loss of a key vendor or manufacturer or changes in its policies could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, violation of a contract that results in either the termination of our ability to sell the product or a decrease in our certification level with the manufacturer could adversely impact our financial results. Our Officers and Directors Own a Significant Amount of Our Common Stock and May be Able to Exert a Significant Influence over Corporate Matters Our officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 52.2% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2013. As a result, these stockholders acting together will be able to exert considerable influence over the election of our directors and the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of ePlus and consequently could affect the market price of our common stock. We May Not Be Able to Hire and/or Retain Personnel That We Need to Succeed To increase market awareness and sales of our offerings, we may need to expand our sales operations and marketing efforts in the future. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort and significant technical support. For example, our sales and engineering candidates must have highly technical hardware and software knowledge in order to create a customized solution for our customers’ business processes. Competition for qualified sales, marketing and technical personnel fluctuates depending on market conditions and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient numbers of such personnel to maintain and grow our business. Increasingly, our competitors are requiring their employees to agree to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements as part of their employment, and this could make it more difficult for us to hire those persons. We Face Substantial Competition From Larger Companies As Well As Our Manufacturers and Financial Partners In our technology segment, manufacturers may choose to market their products directly to end-users, rather than through resellers such as our company, and this could adversely affect our future sales. In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our vendors and financial partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many competitors compete principally on the basis of price and may have lower costs or accept lower selling prices than us and, therefore, current gross margins may not be maintainable. In addition, we do not have guaranteed sales volume commitments from our customers and, therefore, our sales volume may be volatile. 17 Table of Contents In our financing segment, we face competition from many sources including much larger companies with greater financial resources. Our competition may originate from manufacturers of the products we lease or financial partners who choose to market directly to customers through the manufacturers’ captive leasing organization or large financial institutions such as banks with substantially lower cost of funds. Our competition may lower lease rates in order to increase market share. We Face Risks of Claims From Third Parties for Intellectual Property Infringement That Could Harm Our Business We may be subject to claims on our products and services or products that we resell infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. The manufacturer of certain products or services we resell, may not provide us with indemnification for infringement. However, our customers may seek indemnification from us. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain such licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could significantly increase our expenses and/or adversely affect our ability to offer one or more of our services. We May be Liable for Misappropriation of Our Customers’ Corporate Information The security systems used in our product and service offerings may be circumvented or sabotaged by third parties, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive corporate information or private personal information, unauthorized procurement, or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ information such as credit card information, or such information for which our customers may be responsible and for which we agree to be responsible in connection with service contracts we may enter, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to certain information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liability could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. Any such liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have been investigating various companies regarding whether they misused or inadequately secured personal information regarding consumers. We could incur additional expenses if new laws or regulations regarding the use of sensitive information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We seek to rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of our security practices we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could cause us to incur significant expense to investigate and respond to a security breach and correct any problems caused by any breach, subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand-name. We May Not Have Designed Our Information Technology Systems to Support Our Business without Failure We are dependent upon the reliability of our information, telecommunication and other systems, which are used for sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, customer service and general accounting functions. Interruption or poor design of our information systems, Internet or telecommunications systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. If We Fail to Integrate Acquisitions, Our Profitability May Be Adversely Affected Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire, to reduce costs, or leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth, could significantly impact future revenue and earnings. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our gross margins and return on investment. In addition, we may acquire entities with unknown liabilities, fraud, cultural or business environment issues or that may not have adequate internal controls as may be required by law. 18 Table of Contents If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property, Our Business May Suffer The success of our business strategy depends, in part, upon proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws and contractual provisions with our customers, subcontractors and employees to protect our proprietary technology. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Some of our agreements with our customers and technology licensors contain residual clauses regarding confidentiality and the rights of third parties to obtain the source code for our products. These provisions may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in the future that could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Changes in Taxes and Other Regulatory Legislation May Require Us to Change Our Policies or Structure We operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. When new legislation is enacted with minimal advance notice, or when new interpretations or applications of existing laws are made, we may need to implement changes in our policies or structure. We plan our structure and operations based upon existing laws and anticipated future changes in the law. We are susceptible to unanticipated changes in legislation, especially relating to income and other taxes, as well as other laws related to trade and business activities. Such changes in legislation may have a significant adverse effect on our business. The Trend of Increasing Costs to Provide Health Care and Other Benefits to Employees May Continue. We provide health care and other benefits to our employees and their families. For many years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. may also increase our cost of providing such benefits. Our Electronic-Commerce Related Products and Services Subject Us to Challenges and Risks in a Rapidly Evolving Market As a provider of a comprehensive set of solutions, which involves the bundling of direct IT sales, professional services and financing with our proprietary software, we expect to encounter some of the challenges, risks, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies providing new and/or bundled solutions in rapidly evolving markets. Some of these challenges include our ability to: increase the total number of users of our services, adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments or continue to update our technology to enhance the features and functionality of our suite of products. Our business strategy may not be successful or successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties. In the software market, there are a number of companies developing and marketing business-to-business electronic commerce solutions similar to ours, and competitors are adapting their product offerings to a SAAS platform. Some of these competitors and potential competitors include ERP system vendors and other major software vendors that are expected to sell their procurement and asset management products along with their application suites. These ERP vendors have a significant installed customer base and have the opportunity to offer additional products to those customers as additional components of their respective application suites. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We also face indirect competition from potential customers’ internal development efforts and have to overcome potential customers’ reluctance to move away from legacy systems and processes. In all of our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current competitors may have, and potential competitors may have, greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. We expect to incur significant sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in connection with the development of these areas of our business; however, we may not be successful in achieving revenue growth. These expected expenses may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results as a whole. 19 Table of Contents If Our Proprietary Software Products Contain Defects, Our Business Could Suffer Products as complex as those used to provide our electronic commerce solutions often contain unknown and undetected errors or performance problems. We may have serious defects immediately following introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. Undetected errors or performance problems may not be discovered in the future and errors considered by us to be minor may be considered serious by our customers. In addition, our customers may experience a loss in connectivity by our SAAS solution as a result of a power loss at our data center, Internet interruption or defects in our software. This could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance or unforeseen liabilities that would be detrimental to our reputation and to our business. If We Publish Inaccurate Catalog Content Data, Our Business Could Suffer Any defects or errors in catalog content data could harm our customers or deter businesses from participating in our offering, damage our business reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, and potentially expose us to legal liability. In addition, from time to time vendors who provide us electronic catalog data could submit to us inaccurate pricing or other catalog data. Even though such inaccuracies are not caused by our work and are not within our control, such inaccuracies could deter current and potential customers from using our products or result in inaccurate pricing to our customers. Our Earnings May Fluctuate, Which Could Adversely Affect the Price of Our Common Stock Our earnings are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed above. In the event our revenues or net earnings are less than the level expected by the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 