Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2 Properties 27 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 54 Item 9B Other Information 56 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 Item 11 Executive Compensation 56 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 56 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 56 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 56 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 56 SIGNATURES 58 EX-21.1 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 1 Table of Contents Part I This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate” or “assume” or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth below and under the captions “Risk Factors” contained in Item 1A and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in Item 7. We caution you that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. Business Overview Oplink Communications, Inc. (“we”, “Oplink”, or the “Company”) was incorporated in California in September 1995 and was later reincorporated in Delaware in September 2000. We are headquartered in Fremont, California and have manufacturing, design and research and development facilities in Zhuhai, Shanghai, Wuhan, China, in Taiwan and in Calabasas, California. We began selling our products in 1996. We design, manufacture and sell optical networking components and subsystems. Our products expand optical bandwidth, amplify optical signals, monitor and protect wavelength performance, redirect light signals and provide signal transmission and reception within an optical network. Our products enable greater and higher quality bandwidth over longer distances, which reduces network congestion and transmission cost per bit. Our products also enable optical system manufacturers to provide flexible and scalable bandwidth to support the increase of data traffic on the Internet and other public and private networks. We provide over 350 different products that are sold as components or are integrated into custom solutions. We provide customers with high quality optical subsystems and components that are used for bandwidth creation, bandwidth management and transmission products. Our products and solutions can be applied to all segments of the fiber optic network infrastructure including long-haul networks, metropolitan area networks (“MANs”), local area networks (“LANs”) and fiber-to-the-home (“FTTH”) networks. We provide our solution and products to the exacting requirements of the world’s leading optical networking equipment companies, and work closely with customers during the product design and development cycle. This provides us with the ability to respond to the volume production requirements of our customers when their systems are ready for commercial deployment. We are responsive to our customers’ volume, quality and time-to-market requirements. Our product portfolio includes solutions for next-generation, all-optical dense and coarse wavelength division multiplexing (“DWDM” and “CWDM,” respectively), optical amplification, switching and routing, monitoring and conditioning, and line transmission applications. Our addressable markets include long-haul networks, MANs, LANs and FTTH networks. Our customers include telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers located around the globe. As a photonic foundry, we provide design, integration and optical manufacturing solutions (“OMS”) for advanced and cost-effective components and subsystem manufacturing at our principal in-house design, service and manufacturing facility in Zhuhai, China and through our contract manufacturer in Dongguan, China. We offer our customers expert OMS for the production and packaging of highly-integrated optical subsystems and turnkey solutions, based upon a customer’s specific product design and specifications as well as solutions with lower levels of component integration for customers that place more value on flexibility than would be provided with turnkey solutions. Our OMS customers include telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers located around the globe. Our product portfolio also includes optical transmission products, including fiber optic transmitters, receivers, transceivers and transponders. Optical transmission products convert electronic signals into optical signals and back 2 Table of Contents into electronic signals, thereby facilitating the transmission of information over fiber optic communication networks. Our optical transmission products are used primarily in MAN, LAN, and FTTH applications. Our transmission products are engineered with varying levels of integration to suit customers. The lowest level of integration involves separate transmitter and receiver modules, which provides our customers the greatest flexibility in product design by allowing them to place the transmitters and the receivers according to their design specifications. Transceivers provide the next level of integration. Transceivers place both the transmitter and receiver in the same package with a dual fiber or connector interface. We undertake research and development activities at our facilities in Wuhan and Zhuhai, China, in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and at facilities in Fremont and Calabasas, California. Our common stock has been quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “OPLK” since our initial public offering in October 2000. Our Internet website address is www.oplink.com. Our website address is given solely for informational purposes; we do not intend, by this reference, that our website should be deemed to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to incorporate the information available at our Internet address into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the SEC. These reports can also be obtained from the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov or at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. On January 1, 2001, we adopted a fiscal year which ends on the Sunday closest to June 30 of each year. Interim fiscal quarters will end on the Sunday closest to each calendar quarter end. In this report, for presentation purposes, we present each fiscal year as if it ended on June 30, and each fiscal quarter as if it ended on September 30, December 31 or March 31, as the case may be. For more information, please see Note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included at the end of this report. Our Solution Oplink is a leader in the optical industry and is uniquely positioned to provide unparalleled OMS to our customers for leading edge, integrated solutions that can be rapidly and cost effectively deployed in communications networks around the world. OMS are customized optical solutions to fit a customer’s specific needs. The customized, variety-rich and high reliability requirements of optical equipment manufacturing makes Oplink’s OMS service the ideal solution for meeting the needs of system and subsystem companies for cost-effective manufacturing of optical equipment. Oplink possesses the expertise and versatility in product design and development needed to provide the high responsiveness and flexibility expected in today’s markets. We are able to offer shortened design cycle times and reduced production costs with our 130,000 square feet Class-10K clean room and a 537,000 square feet manufacturing facility in Zhuhai, China. Oplink offers a wide range of engineering and design services, which include: • Optic-centric design; • Electrical system design; • Software and firmware development; • Thermal management; • Mechanical design; • System Integration; and • Compliance. 3 Table of Contents Oplink offers our customers turn-key solutions including the following value-added services: • Optical Product Design and Maximization. Oplink will provide optical design, mechanical design, printed circuit board (PCB) layout and electrical design and software and firmware design services to our customers. • Testing. Oplink will carry out full optical and electrical system and component testing for customers to test for reliability, compliance and subsystem integration. • Customer Care. Oplink will provide preorder and post-sales customer support, access to engineering support, flexible order fulfillment/shipment and customer training around the globe. • System Integration. Oplink provides full system integration with performance testing, validation and guaranteed product performance. The integration and testing can be performed with any customer specified hardware or designs. • Procurement. We leverage our extensive expertise in the optical industry in its selection of reliable suppliers with the highest quality products for our customers. • Expert Assembly and Packaging. Oplink offers extensive experience in integrated assembly and packaging optimization to meet even the most challenging specifications. • Comprehensive Supply Chain Management. Oplink employs a synchronized and fully integrated supply chain model that addresses integration challenges specific to the optical environment as well as key logistical concerns. • Prototyping. To facilitate successful and timely new product introductions, Oplink’s manufacturing team rapidly delivers small quantities of products, or prototypes, to test and ensure product functionality and viability prior to volume production. • Global Distribution. Oplink provides customers with the flexible, worldwide shipment of assembled product. Our Strategy Oplink provides highly integrated optical sub-systems, design services and custom solutions to telecommunication equipment makers. By leveraging our well-established core competencies in optical design and manufacturing, we are able to serve not only telecommunications equipment makers, but also module and component makers in need of a manufacturing partner. The core elements of our strategy are: Continuous focus on our cost structure. Oplink maintains vertically integrated photonic manufacturing facilities in low-cost overseas locations. Our low cost manufacturing facilities allows us to do full design work in-house which enables us to supply cutting edge products at the lowest possible cost in the industry. In an industry characterized by intense price competition and at times price erosion, our low cost structure is a source of sustainable competitive advantage. The source of this sustainability comes from the fact that we believe our design and manufacturing facilities are difficult and expensive to replicate by other firms. Despite our existing streamlined cost structure, we continuously identify and implement cost-saving programs across our organization. The increase in the world-wide demand for broadband increases the demand for our products. With our vertically integrated cost structure, increasing world-wide demand leads to greater capacity utilization and therefore greater operating leverage as fixed costs are spread over a greater number of manufactured units, resulting in improved gross margins. One-Stop-Shop Solution Provider. Oplink offers a one-stop-shop approach or turn-key solutions in our OMS service that provide customized solutions to our customers’ specific needs. One-stop-shopping is being increasingly demanded by our customers, the telecommunications network vendors. Our customers are increasingly requiring optical component suppliers to take advantage of developments in product integration to provide solutions incorporating multiple optical components on a single subsystem or module, thereby reducing the need for 4 Table of Contents component assembly and additional testing. Therefore, we believe that suppliers like Oplink who are able to offer a more integrated manufacturing solution to customers will have an advantage over suppliers who can only offer discrete optical components. The vertical integration of our design and manufacturing capability enables us to consistently deliver the highest quality, lowest cost products to our customers as well as to respond rapidly to design or specification changes which would shorten our customer’s time-to-market. We believe that offering broad solutions increases our penetration of existing customers. Selectively pursuing acquisitions. From time to time Oplink engages in strategic discussions with other companies. In an industry characterized with excess capacity and intense price competition, we believe there are merits in continued industry consolidation. We intend to play an active part in the consolidation of the industry and will consider using acquisitions as a vehicle to broaden our product portfolio, obtain critical technologies, strengthen our relationships with existing customers and to add new customers. Products and Technologies We provide a broad line of fiber optic subsystems and components designed to satisfy the needs of communications equipment suppliers. We categorize our products by the functionalities provided within a network, namely, bandwidth creation, bandwidth management and transmission products. Some of our products have attributes that combine multiple functions. Some of our bandwidth creation and bandwidth management products utilize telecommunication interfaces to provide local or remote reporting and control to enhance their function in an optical network. Bandwidth Creation Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth creation products to expand the capacity and/or extend the coverage of their customers’ networks. Other bandwidth creation products enable optical signals to travel along more complex network architectures such as mesh networks and metro networks, or enable optical signals to travel greater distances over traditional long haul networks. Wavelength Expansion Products. In fiber optic communications, different signals are transmitted over multiple wavelengths. With increases in the number of wavelengths and data rates, spacing between the wavelengths narrows and it becomes increasingly difficult to separate and direct them. We offer wavelength expansion products that are designed to enable the combination and separation of a particular wavelength in all parts of the network including emerging access and metro networks and traditional long haul networks. Wavelength expansion products include wavelength multiplexing (combining), de-multiplexing (separating), and wavelength interleaving, which combines light signals from two or more simultaneous sources over a single fiber. We offer the following products to handle these tasks: • Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexers. A dense wavelength division multiplexer, or DWDM, is a solution for scalable, reliable, protocol independent bandwidth creation. A DWDM multiplexer is an integrated optical module or subsystem that combines two or more wavelengths for transmission over a single fiber (multiplexing) or separates these wavelengths (demultiplexing) at the receiving end. Our DWDM module and subsystem solutions are derived from an array of high performance technologies including thin film filters and arrayed wave guides, or AWGs. Our solutions are available in a variety of channel spacings. • Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexers. A coarse wavelength division multiplexer, or CWDM, is a solution for cost-effective bandwidth creation in the access, cable TV and metro environments. A CWDM multiplexer is an integrated optical module or subsystem that combines two or more wavelengths, at a channel spacing that is many times wider than for standard DWDM channel spacing for multiplexing or demultiplexing. • Band Wavelength Division Multiplexers. Band wavelength division multiplexer, or BWDM, products help manage multiple International Telecommunication Union, or ITU, channels within multiplexer/demultiplexer (Mux/Demux) or optical add/drop applications. Our BWDMs pass a band of channels while isolating the channels adjacent to the band of channels sent. BWDM products facilitate the design of flexible (pay as 5 Table of Contents you grow) low loss architectures as well as enable the design of complex mesh and ring networks. We offer a variety of BWDM products at 50, 100 and 200 GHz spacing. • DWDM Interleavers. A DWDM interleaver is an optical component that combines light signals from two sets of signals over a single fiber, which effectively doubles the capacity of the optical network system, or separates a single light source into multiple signals. Optical Amplification Products. Optical fiber amplifiers are widely deployed in optical communications networks to enhance the optical signal power. Optical signals typically lose power and eventually are lost after traveling a long distance along an optical fiber in traditional long haul networks. In emerging access or metro networks, optical signals lose power at add/drop nodes, which are those locations in a network where wavelength channels enter or exit the node. This power loss is referred to as attenuation. Through recent advances in technology, the optical signal can be amplified with Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers, or EDFAs, or with Raman amplifiers, neither of which require opto-electrical conversion. The amplifiers are arranged along fiber cable lines at regular intervals in long haul networks or at selected nodes in access and metro networks to enable the optical signal to reach its destination clearly. While amplifiers range in complexity, a typical amplifier consists of a fiber and a number of fiber optic components. We offer both EDFA and Raman amplification products including EDFAs and the components used in EDFA and Raman amplifier designs. Our optical amplification products include the following: • Gain Blocks. Gain blocks are integrated optical subsystem building blocks consisting of EDFs and fiber optic components used in fiber optic amplifiers to boost the amplitude of an incoming optical signal. • EDFAs. Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers are optical subsystems that employ gain blocks, advanced electronics, firmware and software to control the optical gain of an incoming optical signal. • Wavelength Division Multiplexers (“WDM”) Pump/Signal Combiners. Micro-optic WDM pump/signal combiners are components that combine power for the optical amplifier. They are used to efficiently combine light signals with pump laser sources. Pump lasers are active optical components used in optical amplifiers such as EDFAs to amplify or regenerate light signals that naturally suffer loss while traveling over distance within an optical network. • Integrated Hybrid Components. Optical amplifier systems can combine optical components, including isolators, tap couplers and WDM pump/signal combiners. The main advantage of hybrid components is that they minimize the amplifier package size, increase reliability and reduce manufacturing cost. • WDM Pump Combiners. WDM pump combiners are used to increase the power of an optical amplifier by combining multiple pump lasers into one common pump source for amplification. • Polarization Beam Combiners. Polarization beam combiners are optical components that combine two of the same or different wavelengths with opposing polarization to increase the power output of the optical amplifier. • Gain Flattening Filters. Gain flattening filters are used to ensure signals are amplified by equal amounts. Our thin film filter technology, or the technology in which layers of thin film separate optical signals, employs multiple layers of optical materials on glass to adjust optical output at different wavelengths to meet the needs of next-generation high power amplifiers. • Isolators. Isolators are fiber optic devices that transmit light in only one direction, thus preventing a reflected light signal from returning to its laser source or EDF. Reflected light can interfere with a laser’s process and create noise, which can impair system performance in optical networks. • Tap Couplers. Tap couplers transfer optical signals between fibers. They are widely used for system monitoring purposes or for power splitting and have a very low insertion loss. 6 Table of Contents Bandwidth Management Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth management products to add intelligence and flexibility to their systems, which allows communications service providers to monitor the performance, control the direction, and condition the amplitude of light signals throughout the optical network. Wavelength Performance Monitoring and Protection Products. The ability to monitor wavelengths within an optical network enables service providers to maintain quality of service even in the event of an interruption in the signal path, such as a cut in the fiber. It is significantly more difficult to monitor signal flow in optical systems as compared to electrical systems. Monitoring requires that optical signals be extracted from the fiber without interfering with the optical signal traveling through the same fiber. We offer the following products that enable service providers to monitor network performance and make necessary decisions for traffic flow and network efficiency: • Supervisory Channel WDM. Our supervisory channel WDM is an integrated component that separates the network supervisory channel from the signal channel that is used in monitoring the network performance. • Integrated WDM Monitor Arrays. Our integrated WDM monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network selective wavelength power monitoring. This module combines multiple network power monitoring functions in a single module and integrates WDM filters and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not signals are being transmitted properly through the network. • Integrated Tap Monitor Arrays. Our integrated tap monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network signal power monitoring. This module integrates a tap coupler, a device that splits the light power, and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not optical signals are being transmitted properly through the network. • Wavelength Protection Subsystems. Our multi-channel wavelength protection subsystems are integrated solutions that combine tap couplers, splitters, switches, electronics, firmware, software and third-party photo detectors. These subsystems integrate network switching protection functions and monitor optical signal quality such as optical power in response to unexpected disruption in the optical network. They provide redundant path protection with fast routing and switching with network fault management and diagnostic capability. Optical Switching and Routing Products. As optical networks become more complex, there is an increasing demand to provide switching and routing capability to direct optical signals across multiple points in the network. We supply optical fiber switching and routing products that provide all-optical signal switching between fibers with up to eight different end destinations. Our optical switching and routing products include the following: • Optical Add/Drop Multiplexers. Optical add/drop multiplexers, or OADMs, are used when part of the information from an optical signal carried on the network is demultiplexed, or dropped, at an intermediate point and different information is multiplexed, or added, for subsequent transmission. The remaining traffic passes through the multiplexer without additional processing. The OADM is typically used for rerouting a number of specific optical wavelengths with different end destinations. OADMs can also include other optical components such as optical conditioning products or optical monitoring products for increased functionality. • Reconfigurable OADMs (“ROADMs”). ROADMs combine OADM functionality, optical wavelength selective switching, or WSS, and conditioning products, electronic circuitry, integrated firmware and software to add remote configuration and provisioning flexibility to the network by allowing the dynamic add/drop of variable optical wavelengths having different amplitudes with different end destinations. 7 Table of Contents • Switches. Optical switches are devices that can direct optical signals to different end destinations. • Circulators. Circulators consist of sophisticated micro-optic components that are used to re-direct optical signals. Circulators are also used in dispersion compensation applications and in DWDM fiber grating based wavelength expansion products. Wavelength Conditioning Products. For reliable fiber optic communication systems, the light signal intensity needs to be controlled. For example, excess input power can overload the receivers and an optical attenuator is used to reduce the input signal to the level required by the receiver. Wavelength conditioning products are used in optical networks along with DWDM multiplexers and demultiplexers, optical amplifiers, and re-configurable optical add drop multiplexers to provide the power control functions. Our wavelength conditioning products include the following: • Variable Optical Attenuators. Variable optical attenuators, or VOAs, are optical devices that reduce the power of the optical signal in DWDM networks to ensure that all optical signals within a network have equal power. The amount of power reduction of a particular optical signal can be adjusted to match the power of other optical signals in the network thereby enhancing network performance and service quality. • Variable Multiplexers. Variable Multiplexers combine multiple ITU channel signals along with the function of adjusting the power level. The subsystems attenuate the power level of individual ITU signals to achieve equalization of the spectrum or blocking specific channels. • Dynamic Band Equalization Products. Dynamic band equalization products monitor and adjust power levels of multiple bands of ITU channels. These subsystems separate multiple ITU channels into bands of channels, and then monitor and control the power levels of these bands through standard telecommunication interfaces such as RS232 and then multiplex these multiple bands onto a single fiber. They are used for power equalization in various parts of the network including metro and long haul. Transmission Products The acquisition of Optical Communication Products, Inc. (“OCP”) in 2007 has enabled Oplink to offer a portfolio of transmission products that broaden the addressable markets as well as the range of solutions that Oplink can now offer its customers. Oplink’s transmission products consists of a comprehensive line of high-performance fiber optic modules, including fiber optic transmitters, receivers, transceivers, and transponders, primarily for use in MAN, LAN, and FTTH applications. Fiber optic modules are pre-assembled components that are used to build network equipment. Our transmission products convert electronic signals into optical signals and back into electronic signals, thereby facilitating the transmission of information over fiber optic communication networks. Our transmission products are engineered with varying levels of integration to suit customers. The lowest level of integration involves separate transmitter and receiver modules, which provides our customers the greatest flexibility in product design by allowing them to place the transmitters and the receivers according to their design specifications. Transceivers provide the next level of integration. Transceivers place both the transmitter and receiver in the same package with a dual fiber or connector interface. Transmitters and Receivers — Transmitters convert an electronic digital input signal into an optical output signal for transmission over a fiber optic network. Receivers detect optical signals from a fiber optic network and convert them into an electronic signal in standard digital/logic format for further signal processing. Oplink offers separate transmitter and receiver modules that provide our customers with the greatest flexibility in product design by allowing them to place transmitters and receivers separately according to design specifications. Oplink’s optical transmitter and receiver products support the SONET/SDH, Fast Ethernet, and Gigabit Ethernet transmission standards and are offered in a wide range of data rates, transmission distances and packaging options. Transceivers — Optical transceivers are products that contain both a transmitter and a receiver in a single package and serve as high data rate interconnects between network devices, such as routers, switches, servers and access elements. Oplink’s optical transceivers are available in a wide variety of fiber optic interfaces, or form factors, and support a wide range of data rates, wavelengths, modes and transmission distances. Oplink’s 8 Table of Contents transceivers support the SONET/SDH, ATM, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet Passive Optical Network (GePON), Gigabit Passive Optical Network (GPON), ESCON and Fiber Channel transmission standards. SFP Transceivers — Small form-factor pluggable, or SFP, transceivers are “hot-pluggable” optical transceivers that can be removed or inserted into the equipment without turning off the power of the system. This feature allows Oplink’s customers to readily reconfigure their systems without interrupting their network services, thereby, eliminating system downtime during upgrades and maintenance. SFP Transceivers are for 2.5Gbps transmission speed or below. Oplink’s cam latches are color coded to provide the end-user with an easy way to identify module types in an installed system. SFP+ Transceivers — Enhanced small form-factor pluggable, or SFP+, transceivers are similar products to SFP while delivering the signal at 10Gbps. It is also “hot-pluggable” that can be removed or inserted into the equipment without turning off the power of the system. Supporting Ethernet and Fiber-channel standards make it ideally suited for 10Gbps data-com and storage area network applications. XFP Transceivers — 10 Gigabit small form-factor pluggable is a hot-pluggable, protocol-independent optical transceiver for 10 Gigabit per second SONET/SDH, Fiber Channel, gigabit Ethernet, 10 gigabit Ethernet and other applications, including DWDM links. It includes digital diagnostics and the electrical interface specification is a portion of the XFP Multi Source Agreement specification. CWDM Transceivers — Coarse wavelength division multiplexing, or CWDM, transceivers allow the mixing of optical signals by utilizing different wavelengths. The CWDM transceivers use lasers with wide channel wavelength spacing, typically 20 nm, which allows the equipment to achieve a lower overall system cost. This lower cost is the result of a lower transmitter cost since no temperature and wavelength control is needed, as well as a lower optical MUX/DMUX cost due to wider tolerance on the wavelength stability and bandwidth. Oplink’s CWDM transceivers are available in all the common industry standard transceiver footprints of 1x9, 2x9, GBIC, SFF and SFP, and provide eight wavelength channels at nominally 1471 nm, 1491 nm, 1511 nm, 1531 nm, 1551 nm, 1571 nm, 1591 nm, and 1611 nm. They are available in a multi-rate format that allows operation at all speeds from 125 Mb/s Fast Ethernet up to 2.5Gb/s SONET/SDH. Oplink’s Gigabit Ethernet CWDM product family is available in an industrial operating temperature option (-40 to +85 degrees Celsius). Bi-Directional Transceivers — Bi-Directional transceivers allow full duplex transmission utilizing a single fiber. These transceivers incorporate lasers, receivers and optical filters, allowing simultaneous transmission and reception from a single port or a single fiber. The advantage of Bi-Directional transceiver modules is lower material cost, lower installation cost and lower operational cost for fiber installations, as a result of having to purchase, install, maintain, and administer fewer fibers. Oplink’s Bi-Directional transceivers are available in industry standard pluggable modules (SFP) and are compliant to the industry standard known as EFM (Ethernet for First Mile). The data transmission rates are 1250Mb/s and 125Mb/s, which are the Gigabit Ethernet and Fast Ethernet standard rates, respectively. Our Gigabit Ethernet and Fast Ethernet Bi-Directional product families are available in an industrial operating temperature option (-40 to +85 degree Celsius). DWDM Transceivers — Dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, transceivers allow the mixing of optical signals by utilizing different wavelengths. The DWDM transceivers use lasers with narrow channel wavelength spacing, typically 0.8 nm or 100GHz. DWDM transceivers enable an optical transport system to increase the transmission capacity over a single fiber. Oplink’s DWDM transceivers are available in the SFP package, and provide 44 wavelength channels. They are available in a multi-rate format that allows operation at all speeds from 125Mb/s up to 2.67Gb/s and accommodate reaches up to 200km. GePON products — OCP’s GePON product offering supports ONU (optical network unit) and OLT (optical line terminal) applications. The GePON modules transmit a duplex 1.25Gb/s optical signal over a single fiber between the OLT and ONU modules for both 10 kilometer and 20 kilometer transmission ranges. The OLT module transmits via a 1490nm laser source and the ONU unit transmits via a 1310nm laser source. 9 Table of Contents Customers We sell our products worldwide to telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers around the globe. In certain cases, we sell our products to our competitors or other component manufacturers for their resale or integration into their own products. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we sold our products to over 482 companies worldwide. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 60%, 60% and 64% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Tellabs Operations, Inc. (“Tellabs”) and Hua Wei Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Huawei”) each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, although potentially not the same customers period to period. In addition, some of our customers are companies with which we presently compete or in the future may compete. See “Concentration of Credit Risk” under Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog We are substantially dependent upon orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times, and which are frequently subject to revision or cancellation. Because of the possibility of changes in delivery or acceptance schedules, cancellations of orders, returns or price reductions, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indicator of our future revenues. Marketing, Sales and Customer Support We market and sell our products through both direct sales and distribution channels. As of June 30, 2009, we employed 37 people in sales, marketing, and customer service and support in the U.S. and 22 people in sales and marketing in Asia, who manage key customer accounts and support our direct sales force, sales representatives and distributors. We currently have outside sales representatives and/or distributors selling our products in Israel, Italy, Japan and South Korea. Our marketing team promotes our products within the communications industry. We gather and analyze market research data with the intent to become a market-driven supplier that provides cost-effective, value-add solutions to our customer base. Our marketing professionals help us to identify and define next-generation products by working closely with our customers and our research and development engineers. They also coordinate our participation in trade shows and design and implement our advertising effort. Our web site provides customers with a comprehensive listing of our broad product portfolio. We provide extensive technical support to our customers during their design and qualification process as well as ongoing post-sales support. Research and Development As of June 30, 2009, we had 186 engineers involved in research and development of our products. Our research and development activities are focused on enhancing our current optical communications products and developing new technologies and products to serve the current and next-generation communication markets. Our engineering team has extensive design, packaging, processing, electrical, mechanical, firmware and software experience in the fields of fiber optic components, integrated optic interfaces and systems. Our primary product research and development facility is located in Wuhan, China. We also perform product research and development at our facilities in Zhuhai, China, Hsinchu, Taiwan, and Fremont, California. Our research and development expenses, including non-cash compensation expense, was $11.8 million, $15.4 million and $7.4 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Manufacturing We currently manufacture substantially all of our subsystems, modules and components at our manufacturing facilities in Zhuhai, China and through our contract manufacturer in Dongguan, China, SAE Magnetics (H.K.) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TDK Corporation. We maintain a pilot line at our headquarters in Fremont, 10 Table of Contents California. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone maintains complete in-house manufacturing capabilities including component and module design, integration, production and testing. We plan to continue to invest resources in manufacturing management, engineering and quality control. We also plan to continue to develop automated manufacturing systems to provide higher throughput, improve yields and reduce manufacturing costs. We own our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone totaling approximately 778,000 square feet. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone is used for administration, manufacturing, research and development and employee living quarters. We currently lease 68,000 square feet of our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone to third parties and we may lease to third parties the remaining areas that are in excess of our current requirements. A number of critical raw materials used in manufacturing our products are acquired from single or limited source suppliers. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of those materials may result in delays, increased costs and reductions in our product shipments. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. To date, such laws and regulations have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the foreseeable future. Quality We have established a quality management system to assure that the products we provide to our customers meet or exceed industry standards. Oplink’s products undergo rigid qualification tests and studies and are conducted according to Telcordia standards. Oplink’s ongoing reliability testing builds upon industry standards to establish continuous reliability improvements through intensive tests and performance measures. These systems are based on the international standard ISO 9001. Our U.S. headquarters have been modeled after the ISO 9001-1994 and TL 9000 quality standards in research and manufacturing since July 1998. Our manufacturing operations at Zhuhai, China are third-party certified to the ISO 9001-2000 standard, TL 9000 Telecommunications quality standard, and ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 environmental management standards. Competition The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. Our overall competitive position depends upon a number of factors, including: • competitive pricing; • the quality of our manufacturing processes and products; • the breadth of our product line; • offering short-lead times; • availability, performance and reliability of our products; • our ability to participate in the growth of emerging technologies; • the ability to win designs through prototyping; • established relationships with key customers; • ability to provide technical design support; • the compatibility of our products with existing communications networks; • manufacturing capacity and capability; and • our financial strength. We believe that our principal competitors are the major manufacturers of optical subsystems and components, including both vendors selling to third parties and business divisions within communications equipment suppliers. 11 Table of Contents The market for fiber optic modules is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors include Avago Technologies, DiCon Fiberoptics, ExceLight Communications and its parent corporation, Sumitomo Electric, FDK Corporation, Finisar, Furukawa, MRV Communications, NEL Hitachi Cable, Oclaro, OpNext, Santec Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation and numerous optical component manufacturers in China. We also face indirect competition from public and private companies providing non-fiber optic networking products that address the same networking needs that our products address. The development of alternative solutions to fiber optic transmission needs by our competitors, particularly systems companies that also manufacture modules, such as JDS Uniphase, could significantly limit our growth and harm our competitive position. Many of our current competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, those of our competitors that have large market capitalization or cash reserves are in a much better position to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our products. Any of these potential acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater brand name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we do. These companies can use their broader customer bases and product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Intellectual Property As of June 30, 2009, we had been granted 185 issued patents and have 9 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for various technologies and products. The terms of our patents are computed in accordance with United States federal patent statutes. In general, this means that a patent will have a term expiring twenty years from its filing date. In addition, we currently have 18 issued patents and 7 pending patent applications in the People’s Republic of China, and 4 issued patents and 2 pending patent applications in Canada. While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law and restrictions on disclosure to protect our technology, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to the success of our business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, various unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including China, do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the optical communications industry. We cannot make any assurances that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to our technology. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could seriously harm our financial condition. Employees As of June 30, 2009, Oplink had 99 full-time employees located in the United States and 2,161 full-time employees located in Asia. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. All of our employees in China are represented by a labor union formed on November 6, 2001, pursuant to the requirements of the China’s Labor Union Law. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 12 Table of Contents Financial Information About Geographic Areas The geographic breakdown of revenues by customers’ bill-to location is as follows (in thousands): Years Ended June 30, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: United States $ 48,154 $ 72,098 $ 50,824 Canada 6,949 17,912 8,579 Europe 24,001 23,664 19,779 China 34,529 31,713 17,365 Japan 17,462 17,783 4,351 Asia-Pacific (excluding China and Japan) 12,637 13,083 6,601 Totals $ 143,732 $ 176,253 $ 107,499 The breakdown of property, plant and equipment, net by geographical location is as follows (in thousands): June 30, 2009 2008 United States $ 7,492 $ 10,423 Asia 22,826 23,783 Totals $ 30,318 $ 34,206 Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of August 31, 2009: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 58 Chief Executive Officer and Director Shirley Yin 41 Chief Financial Officer Peter Lee 35 Chief Operating Officer River Gong 46 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Stephen M. Welles 41 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Joseph Y. Liu, one of our founders, has served as our Chief Executive Officer and President since October 2002, and has served as a member of our Board of Directors since our inception in 1995. Previously, Mr. Liu served as our Chief Executive Officer from September 1999 to November 2001, and served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors from our inception in 1995 through May 2000 and again from November 2001 to August 2002. From 1994 to 1995, Mr. Liu was the General Partner of Techlink Technology Ventures. Prior to 1994, Mr. Liu spent ten years as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Techlink Semiconductor and Equipment Corp., a semiconductor equipment and technology company. Mr. Liu also served as a director of InterVideo, Inc., a DVD software provider, which was subsequently acquired by Corel Corporation. Mr. Liu received his B.S. from Chinese Cultural University, Taiwan and his M.S. from California State University, Chico. Shirley Yin has served as Chief Financial Officer since August 2007. Ms. Yin joined Oplink in June 2000 as our Accounting Manager and was promoted to Controller in October 2003. From July 2007 to August 2007, Ms. Yin held the position of Vice President, Finance, and Acting Chief Financial Officer. Before joining Oplink, Ms. Yin spent three years at PricewaterhouseCoopers as a Business Assurance Senior Associate. She is a Certified Public Accountant. Ms. Yin received a Bachelor of Economics in Business Management from Zhongshan University in China and her M.S. in Accountancy from the University of Southern California. Peter Lee has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2008. Mr. Lee joined Oplink in August 2000 and held positions as Production Manager, Product Engineering Manager, Director of Product Engineering and since April 2005, Senior Director of Product Line Management (“PLM”) and Operations. In May 2007, Mr. Lee was 13 Table of Contents promoted to Vice President of Marketing and PLM, responsible for managing activities in PLM, manufacturing, research and development and strategic planning. Mr. Lee received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University and his M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Columbia University. River Gong, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, has served as our head of sales since February 2003. From January 2001 to February 2003, Ms. Gong served as our Sr. Director of Sales, from May 1999 to January 2001 she was Director of Sales, and from January 1998 to May 1999 she was Sales Manager. Prior to joining Oplink, Ms. Gong was Division Manager and Sales Manager of MP Fiber Optics (now Global Opticom), a fiber optics company, from January 1995 to December 1997. Prior to that, she was an architect in China for five years. Ms. Gong received her B.S. in Architecture from Harbin Institute University. Stephen M. Welles has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2008. Mr. Welles was an associate and of counsel with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati in Palo Alto, California from October 1999 to April 2008, and was an associate with Ropes & Gray in Boston, Massachusetts from September 1996 to September 1999. He received his J.D. from Georgetown University and a B.A. in Economics from Boston College. Directors The following table sets forth certain information regarding our directors as of August 31, 2009: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 58 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Leonard J. LeBlanc 68 Chairman of the Board of Directors Chieh Chang 57 Director Jesse W. Jack 73 Director Hua Lee 57 Director Joseph Y. Liu’s biography is set forth above under “Executive Officers.” Leonard J. LeBlanc has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2000 and became the chairman of the board in February 2006. Mr. LeBlanc was on the Board of Directors of eBest Inc., a private software company providing collaborative business management solutions from August 2000 to December 2004. From February 2001 to September 2003, Mr. LeBlanc was Vice President of Corporate Development and Acting Chief Financial Officer of eBest Inc. Mr. LeBlanc was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Vantive Corporation, a customer relationship management software and solution company, from August 1998 to January 2000. From March 1996 to July 1997, Mr. LeBlanc was the Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer at Infoseek Corporation, an Internet search and navigation company. From September 1993 to December 1994, Mr. LeBlanc served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration of GTECH Corporation, a manufacturer of lottery equipment and systems. From May 1987 to December 1992, Mr. LeBlanc served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation software company. Mr. LeBlanc also serves on the board of directors of AXT, Inc., a company involved with the manufacture and sale of high-performance compound semiconductor substrates. Mr. LeBlanc received his B.S. and M.S. from the College of Holy Cross, and his master’s degree in finance from George Washington University. Chieh Chang has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 1995. Mr. Chang has served as Chief Executive Officer of BCD Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., a private analog device company, since September 2008. Mr. Chang served on the board of directors of Genesis Microchip Inc., a NASDAQ-listed semiconductor company, from November 2004 until its acquisition by STMicroelectronics in January 2008. From February 2000 to February 2003, Mr. Chang served as Chief Executive Officer of Programmable Microelectronics Company, Inc. (now Gingistek, Inc.), a fabless semiconductor design company. From April 1992 to August 1996, Mr. Chang was the Director of Technology at Cirrus Logic, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Chang received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the National Taiwan University and his M.S. in Electrical Engineering from University of California, Los Angeles. 14 Table of Contents Jesse W. Jack has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2002. Since January 2003, Mr. Jack has been self-employed as an attorney with The Law Offices of Jesse Jack. He is also the Vice President and General Counsel for I-Bus Corporation, a privately held company. From 1994 until January 2003, Mr. Jack was a partner in the law firm of Jack & Keegan, a California Limited Liability Partnership. Mr. Jack served on the board of directors of The Parkinson’s Institute from 1988 through 2000. Mr. Jack received his B.S. from California State University, San Jose and his J.D. from Hastings College of Law. Hua Lee has been a member of our Board of Directors since February 2006. Mr. Lee has been Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara since 1990. Prior to his tenure at the University of California, Santa Barbara, he was on the faculty of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Mr. Lee received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the National Taiwan University, and M.S. and PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Item 1A — Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. The following is a discussion that highlights some of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations or financial results. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves many risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a discussion that highlights some of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations or financial results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to drop. It is difficult to forecast our revenues accurately. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include, among others: • current uncertain macro-economic climate could lead to reduced demand from our customers, increased price competition for our products, and increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products; • declines in the average selling prices of our products; • fluctuations in the mix of products sold during a quarter (for example, the percentage of total sales represented by lower margin products such as our ROADM products and line transmission applications products); • competitive factors in the fiber optic components and subsystems market, including introductions of new products, new technologies and product enhancements by competitors, consolidation of competitors, customers and service provider end users and pricing pressures; • the ability of our manufacturing operations in China to timely produce and deliver products in the quantity and of the quality our customers require; 15 Table of Contents • our inability to cut costs quickly in the event of market or demand downturns, due to the fact that a high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions, are fixed in the short term; • the availability of materials and components used in our products or increases in the prices of these materials; • our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced optical networking products in a timely manner and in production quantities without defects or other quality issues; and • costs associated with, and the outcomes of, any intellectual property or other litigation to which we may be a party. We expect volatility in our stock price, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. We expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. For example, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $22.38 in October 2006 to an intra-day low of $5.05 in November 2008. The closing sale price of our common stock on September 8, 2009 is $13.76. These fluctuations may occur in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and/or our failure to meet estimates; • changes in market values of comparable companies; • announcements by our competitors or us of new products or of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any loss by us of a major customer; • economic fluctuations in the market for optical communications products, or in the telecommunications industry generally; • the outcome of, and costs associated with, any litigation to which we are or may become a party; • departures of key management or engineering personnel; and • future sales of our common stock. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices, which could cause our gross margins to decline and harm our operating results. The optical networking component industry is experiencing declining average selling prices (“ASPs”) as a result of increasing competition, price pressures from significant customers, greater manufacturing efficiencies achieved through increased automation in the manufacturing process and declining market demand. We anticipate that such ASPs will continue to decrease in the future in response to product and new technology introductions by competitors. These declining ASPs have contributed and may continue to contribute to a decline in our gross margins, which could harm our results of operations. We have incurred substantial losses in the past, and if we are unable to continue to increase our revenues while controlling our costs and operating expenses, we may be unable to sustain our profitability. Although we were profitable in fiscal years 2007 and 2006 with net income of $13.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, we did incur losses of $13.8 million, $6.8 million, $2.6 million, $6.4 million and $36.8 million for fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $233.3 million. We will need to increase our revenues while controlling costs and operating expenses to achieve and sustain profitability. 16 Table of Contents Our operating results may be further adversely affected by the downturn in the global economy and the global telecommunications industry. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have resulted in slowdowns in the global telecommunications and networking industries, as well as specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in: • reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on IT-related capital spending, decreasing our revenue; • increased price competition for our products; and • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue, producing lower gross margins. Our revenue has decreased from $43.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 to $32.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. There is a risk of a further decrease in revenue. We have recently been able to produce positive cash flow from operations, but may be unable to do so if revenue decreases. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets for our products, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience further material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our sales are mostly made pursuant to short-lead-time purchase orders, and therefore our revenue and financial results are difficult to predict. We are substantially dependent on orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. Accordingly, our customers: • may stop purchasing our products or defer their purchases on short notice; • are free to purchase products from our competitors; • are not required to make minimum purchases; and • may cancel orders that they place with us on short notice. As a result, we cannot rely on orders in backlog as a reliable and consistent source of future revenue. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner in response to further revenue shortfalls. This can result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. We depend on the growth and success of the communications industry, which is subject to severe fluctuations in economic activity. We depend on the continued growth and success of the communications industry, which depends, in part, on the continuing growth in demand for increased bandwidth over communications networks. The rate at which communications service providers and other fiber optic network users have built new fiber optic networks or installed new systems in their existing fiber optic networks has fluctuated in the past and these fluctuations may continue in the future. These fluctuations may result in reduced demand from historical rates for new or upgraded fiber optic systems that utilize our products and, therefore, may result in reduced demand for our products. Further, as the communications industry consolidates and realigns to accommodate technological and other developments, our customers and service provider end users may consolidate or align with other entities in a manner that may delay orders and harms our business. Our customers’ continued outsourcing might result in their utilizing large well-established contract manufacturers to provide final system assembly, rather than utilizing us for final system assembly. We may therefore be required to provide lower level components to these contract manufacturers rather than final system assembly to our current customers, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and lower gross margins and profits. Furthermore, these contract manufacturers may seek other source of components, which could harm our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Based on these and other factors, customers may reduce orders for our products and, as a result, our revenue in future periods may decline. In addition, our ability to meet financial expectations for future periods may be harmed. If we are unable to develop new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance, our revenues could decline, which would harm our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to develop, introduce and support cost-effective new products and technologies on a timely basis. Our failure to predict market needs accurately or to develop or obtain through acquisition new products or product enhancements in a timely manner may harm market acceptance and sales of our products. If the development of our products or any other future products takes longer than we anticipate, or if we are unable to develop and introduce these products to market, our revenues could suffer and we may not gain market share. Even if we are able to develop and commercially introduce new products, the new products may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Furthermore, we have implemented, and may continue to implement in the future, significant cost-cutting measures such as reductions in our workforce, including reductions in research and development and manufacturing personnel, that may weaken our research and development efforts or cause us to have difficulty responding to sudden increases in customer orders. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Because the costs for research and development of new products and technology are expensed as incurred, such costs will have a negative impact on our reported net operating results until such time, if ever, that we generate revenue from products or technology resulting from such research and development. If we fail to develop and deploy new cost-effective products and technologies or enhancements of existing products on a timely basis, or if we experience delays in the development, introduction or enhancement of our products and technologies, our products may no longer be competitive, our revenue will decline and we may have inventory that may become obsolete or in excess of future customer demand. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond to product announcements, technological changes or industry changes in standards would likely prevent our products from gaining market acceptance and harm our competitive position. Our ROADM Optical Switching and Routing product has accounted for a significant portion of our revenues for recent periods. We have recently experienced declines in both unit shipments and ASPs of our ROADM products as a result of increased competition, and we expect this trend to continue. Our ROADM products accounted for 16%, 23% and 31% of our revenues for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Quarterly revenues from our ROADM products have fluctuated significantly, and we expect the fluctuations to continue. For example, our ROADM revenues fluctuated from a high of $13.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 to a low of $4.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. We expect the fluctuations in ROADM revenues to continue in the near and medium term. There is intense competition in the industry to supply ROADM products to our customers. Currently, our ROADM product is sold primarily to one customer, who in turn sells the product primarily to one end-user customer. Previously, our ROADM customer was the sole-source supplier of such product for the end-user customer. The end-user customer has announced that it has qualified another company as an alternative optical network system supplier. We expect this development, along with increased competition from other suppliers of ROADM products, to reduce our revenues from the sale of our ROADM products. In addition, we are not the sole source supplier for our customer, and we must compete with other suppliers for the business of our ROADM customer. Further, because the primary components of our ROADM product are available from third party vendors, our competitors may be able to introduce additional competing ROADM products without significant expenditures of 18 Table of Contents resources and without long delays to market. The vendor that provides the primary and critical component to our ROADM product may also be acquired by another company, which could result in us losing all of our current ROADM business. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm our operating results. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our dependence on orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 60% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, and 64% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. We may not be the sole source of supply to our customers, and they may choose to purchase products from other vendors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price reductions could cause our revenue to decline significantly. Our dependence on a small number of customers may increase if the fiber optic components and subsystems industry and our other target markets continue to consolidate. Our markets are highly competitive, some of our customers are also our competitors, and our other customers may choose to purchase our competitors’ products rather than our products or develop internal capabilities to produce their own fiber optic modules. The market for fiber optic components, modules and subsystems is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors include Avago Technologies, Oclaro, DiCon Fiberoptics, ExceLight Communications and its parent corporation, Sumitomo Electric, FDK Corporation, Finisar, Furukawa, MRV Communications, NEL Hitachi Cable, OpNext, Santec Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation and numerous optical component manufacturers in China. We also face indirect competition from public and private companies providing non-fiber optic networking products that address the same networking needs that our products address. The development of alternative solutions to fiber optic transmission needs by our competitors, particularly systems companies that also manufacture modules, such as JDS Uniphase, could significantly limit our growth and harm our competitive position. Many of our current competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, those of our competitors that have large market capitalization or cash reserves are in a much better position to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our products. Any of these potential acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater brand name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we do. These companies can use their broader customer bases and product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. In addition, existing and potential customers, especially in Japan and other international markets, may also become competitors. These customers have the internal capabilities to integrate their operations by producing their own optical modules or by acquiring our competitors or the rights to produce competitive products or technologies, which may allow them to reduce their purchases or cease purchasing from us. We expect our competitors to introduce new and improved products with lower prices, and we will need to do the same to remain competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors with respect to new products. We believe that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins, additional write down of inventory and our loss of market share. 19 Table of Contents Because we depend on third parties to supply some of our raw materials and components, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit our ability to fill customer orders and harm our operating results. Difficulties in obtaining raw materials and components in the future may delay or limit our product shipments, which could result in lost orders, increase our costs, reduce our control over quality and delivery schedules and require us to redesign our products. We depend on third parties to supply the materials and components we use to manufacture our products and some of these third parties are close to full capacity. Adding extra capacity could be time consuming and expensive for Oplink. To be competitive, we must obtain from our suppliers, on a timely basis, sufficient quantities of materials at acceptable prices. We obtain most of our critical materials from a single or limited number of suppliers and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with them. We could experience discontinuation of key components, price increases and late deliveries from our suppliers. The termination of the supply of a particular material, which would require us to redesign our products, identify and qualify acceptable replacement suppliers. We cannot be certain that we could obtain qualifications for such replacements from our customers. Some of our suppliers are competitors who may choose not to supply components to us in the future. In addition, some of the equipment we use is relatively complex and, in periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of this equipment could be as long as six months. If our customers do not approve our manufacturing processes and qualify our products, we will lose significant customer sales and opportunities. Customers generally will not purchase any of our products before they qualify them and approve our manufacturing processes and quality control system. If particular customers do not approve of our manufacturing processes, we will lose the sales opportunities with those customers. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process prior to placing an order. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from nine to twelve months and sometimes longer. Generally, customers consider a wide range of issues before purchasing our products, including interoperation with other components, product performance and reliability. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, our customers’ product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. If sales forecasts to specific customers are not realized, our revenue and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Long sales cycles may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies, our operating results may be harmed. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business or technology, could cause diversion of management’s time and other resources or disrupt our operations. Future acquisitions could result in: • additional operating expenses without additional revenues; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • intangible asset write-offs; • research and development write-offs; 20 Table of Contents • other acquisition-related expenses; and • cannibalization of product lines leading to revenue attrition. Our acquisition of businesses or technologies will require significant commitment of resources. We may be required to pay for any acquisition with cash, but we cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. If we fail to effectively manage our manufacturing capability, produce products that meet our customers’ quality requirements and achieve acceptable production yields in China, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of products that meet all of our customers’ order requirements in a timely manner, which would harm our operating results. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our facilities in China. The quality of our products and our ability to ship products on a timely basis may suffer if we cannot effectively maintain the necessary expertise and resources to effectively manage our manufacturing activities in China. Because manufacturing our products involves complex and precise processes and the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Factors that affect our manufacturing yields include the quality of raw materials used to make our products, the quality of workmanship, the prior experience in manufacturing the specific product and our manufacturing processes. The inadvertent use by our suppliers in using defective materials could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers could also impact our yields. In some cases, existing manufacturing techniques, which involve substantial manual labor, may not allow us to meet our manufacturing yield goals cost-effectively so that we maintain acceptable gross margins while meeting the cost targets of our customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation in order to increase our gross margins and help achieve the targeted cost levels of our customers. We may not achieve manufacturing cost levels that will allow us to achieve acceptable gross margins or fully satisfy customer demands. Additionally, our competitors are automating their manufacturing processes. If we are unable to achieve higher levels of automation and our competitors are successful, it will harm our gross margins. Additional risks associated with managing our manufacturing processes and capability in China include: • our ability to procure the necessary raw materials and equipment on a timely basis; • a potential lack of availability of qualified management and manufacturing personnel; • our ability to maintain quality; • our ability to effectively manage headcount, particularly if we undertake to expand our manufacturing operations; • vulnerability of telecommunications networks in East Asia to natural disasters, such as the recent earthquake that damaged several undersea fiber-optic cables responsible for Internet and telephone connections with parts of China; and • our ability to quickly and efficiently implement an adequate set of financial controls to effectively track and control inventory levels and inventory mix and to accurately predict inventory requirements. 21 Table of Contents Communications equipment suppliers typically require that their vendors commit in advance to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time. We may not be able to pursue many large orders from these suppliers if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities to enable us to commit to provide them with their specified quantities of products. If we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy a customer’s anticipated needs, we likely will lose the order and the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a lengthy period of time. Furthermore, if we fail to fulfill orders to which we have committed, we will lose revenue opportunities and our customer relationships may be harmed. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional carrying costs and have excess and obsolete inventory or we could experience manufacturing delays, which could cause us to lose orders or customers. We currently use historical data, a backlog of orders and estimates of future requirements to determine our demand for components and materials. We must accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead time required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials vary significantly depending on factors such as the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. As a result, we generally maintain high levels of inventories that periodically cause us to have excess and obsolete inventory. However, if we were to underestimate our purchasing requirements, manufacturing could be interrupted, resulting in delays in shipments, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer’s equipment, which could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and substantial costs. Our products are deployed in large and complex optical networks and must be compatible with other system components. Our products can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in these networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover errors, defects or incompatibilities in our products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. Our products may also have errors, defects or incompatibilities that are not found until after a system upgrade is installed. Errors, defects, incompatibilities or other problems with our products could result in: • loss of customers; • loss of or delay in revenues; • loss of market share; • damage to our brand and reputation; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by our customers; and • increased insurance costs. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire additional personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, finance, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. In addition, we depend substantially upon the continued services of key management personnel at our Chinese subsidiaries. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Our loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base may prevent us from executing our growth strategy. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. In addition, our management team has experienced significant personnel changes over the past and may continue to experience changes in the future. We are exposed to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls that could adversely impact our operating results. Significant portions of our operations are conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, particularly in Chinese Renminbi and the new Taiwan dollar. Our operating results are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position. As a result, we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses. Moreover, China’s government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currency out of China. Any shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency. Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to convert and remit our sales received in Renminbi into U.S. dollars. If our liability for U.S. and foreign taxes is greater than we have anticipated and reserved for, our operating results may suffer. We are subject to taxation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions in which we do business, including China. We believe that we have adequately estimated and reserved for our tax liability. However, our business operations, including our transfer pricing for transactions among our various business entities operating in different tax jurisdictions, may be audited at any time by the U.S., Chinese or other foreign tax authorities. In addition, we have estimated our U.S. tax liability assuming the benefit of substantial net operating loss carryforwards. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards prior to 1999 are subject to certain limitations due to certain changes in our ownership in 1999 and 1998. If the use of our net operating loss carryforwards is limited to a further extent than we anticipate, our operating results may suffer. The tax benefits available to our subsidiaries located in China are currently being phased out, which will result in higher taxes required to be paid by our Chinese subsidiaries than were required in the past. Our subsidiaries located in China formerly enjoyed tax benefits in the form of tax holidays in China that were generally available to foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs. In the past, our subsidiaries in China have qualified for the preferential tax treatment provided to FIEs and have not been obligated to pay income tax. However, the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic-invested enterprises and FIEs, unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The EIT Law provides a five-year “grandfather” or phase-in period for FIEs established before the new law was adopted. As such, we have had a full exemption from tax for past two calendar years and will have a reduced tax rate for calendar years 2009, 2010 and 2011. Beginning with calendar 2012, our China subsidiaries may be subject to the full income tax rate. The increased taxes to be paid by our China subsidiaries may have an adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries, such as China, where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of the attention of our technical and management personnel. 23 Table of Contents We may be involved in intellectual property disputes in the future, which will divert management’s attention and could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the communications and fiber optic components and subsystems markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors and academic institutions. In addition, from time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims could be time consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. We have no means of knowing that a patent application has been filed in the United States until the patent is issued. Optical component suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. From time to time we may be involved in lawsuits as a result of alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property. Both prosecuting and defending lawsuits involving our intellectual property may be costly and time consuming and may also divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Intellectual property litigation is often highly complex and can extend for a protracted period of time, which can substantially increase the cost of litigation. Accordingly, the expenses and diversion of resources associated with intellectual property litigation to which we may become a party could seriously harm our business and financial condition. In the process of asserting our intellectual property rights, these rights could be found to be invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Failure to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could result in our inability to prevent our competitors from utilizing our proprietary rights. Any intellectual property litigation also could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial monetary damages; or • redesign the products that use the technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to liability. New laws could be enacted that increase the risks and costs to Oplink. Failure to comply with a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States, China and Taiwan could subject us to criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations that regulate the export of products and disclosure of technical information to foreign countries and citizens. In some instances, these laws and regulations may require licenses for the export of products to, and disclosure of technology in, some countries, including China and Taiwan, and disclosure of technology to foreign citizens. We have generally relied on self-classification in determining whether an export license is required and have determined that export licenses are not required. As we develop and commercialize new products and technologies, the list of products and technologies subject to U.S. export controls changes, or in the event that the relevant export authorities disagree with the outcome of our self-classification, we may be required to obtain export licenses or other approvals with respect to those products and technologies and may possibly be subject to penalties under applicable laws. We cannot predict whether these licenses and approvals will be required and, if so, whether they will be granted. The failure to obtain any required license or approval could harm our business. We ship inventory and other materials to and from our facilities in China and Taiwan and, as a result, are subject to various Chinese, Taiwanese and U.S. customs-related laws. Given the geographic distance and changing regulations and governmental standards, it can be difficult to monitor and enforce compliance with customs laws. 24 Table of Contents Our customs practices in China are currently being reviewed by local governmental authorities in China. The authorities may determine that additional duties must be paid or that certain of our practices must be changed. The U.S. Customs Service may also require us to revise product classifications from time to time with respect to various items imported into the United States. In such cases we may be required to pay any increase in customs duty to account for the difference in duty actually paid by Oplink and the duty owed under the amended product classification, and may also be subject to penalties under applicable laws. In addition, from time to time we enter into transfer pricing arrangements with our subsidiaries to establish sales prices for internal distributions of goods that have the effect of allocating taxes between the parent corporation and our subsidiaries. In general, these transfer prices have not been approved by any governmental entity and, therefore, may be challenged by the applicable tax authorities. China tax authorities have recently announced that they plan to increase transfer-pricing audits, and have specifically identified telecommunications companies, among others, as priority targets. We employ a number of foreign nationals in our U.S. operations and, as a result, we are subject to various laws related to the status of those employees with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. We also send our U.S. employees to China and Taiwan from time to time and for varying durations of time to assist with our Chinese operations. Depending on the durations of such arrangements, we may be required to withhold and pay personal income taxes in respect of the affected U.S. employees directly to the Chinese and Taiwanese tax authorities, and the affected U.S. employees may be required to register with various Chinese and Taiwanese governmental authorities. If we fail to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations or any other applicable laws and regulations, we may incur liabilities. In addition, we are subject to laws relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, if we fail to store, use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. On January 1, 2008, a new labor contract law (“LCL”) went into effect in China. We believe that the new law will reduce our flexibility in hiring employees and in terminating the employment of employees, could increase the risk of hiring employees, and could increase the cost of any future restructuring that involves our Chinese facilities, which could result in a material adverse impact on our profitability and liquidity. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could impair the reliability of our financial statements, cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, harm our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting (“Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting”) in our Annual Report on Form 10-K each year. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the Form 10-K. If, in the future, our management is unable to assert in the Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting to be included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for any fiscal year that Oplink’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of such fiscal year, or if Oplink’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of Oplink’s internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our consolidated financial statements could be impaired, we may be unable to timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year and Oplink’s reputation could be harmed, any of which could adversely affect our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. Disruption to commercial activities in the United States or in other countries, particularly in China and Taiwan, may adversely impact our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside the United States and substantial portions of our operations are located in China and Taiwan. Our international operations expose us to a number of additional risks associated with international operations, including, without limitation: • disruptions to commercial activities or damage to our facilities as a result of natural disasters, political unrest, war, terrorism, labor strikes, and work stoppages; • disruptions of telecommunications networks due to natural disasters; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in optical network technology; • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical systems or networks; • disruptions in the transportation of our products and other risks related to the infrastructure of foreign countries; • economic instability; • any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza and other epidemics or illnesses; and • power shortages at our manufacturing facilities in China, which may lead to production delays. To the extent that such disruptions interfere with our commercial activities, our results of operations could be harmed. Substantially all of Oplink’s manufacturing operations are located in China and are subject to the laws and regulations of China. Our operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in the laws and regulations of China, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. China’s central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, which would require additional expenditures. Our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed by changes in the political, economic or social conditions in China. In addition, events in Taiwan and especially China could disrupt our operations. There is currently political tension between the United States and China, which could, in either case, result in hostilities or deterioration in relations that would impact our trade relations with China. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law and other arrangements may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent any change in control, which could negatively affect your investment. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions permit us to: • issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • eliminate the right of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; 26 Table of Contents • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and • impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, on March 18, 2002, our Board of Directors adopted a share purchase rights plan, which has certain additional anti-takeover effects. Specifically, the terms of the plan provide for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 