Item 1A. Risk Factors Cyclicality of Forest Products Industry The Company’s results of operations are, and will continue to be, affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Prices and demand for logs and manufactured wood products have been, and in the future can be expected to be, subject to cyclical fluctuations. The demand for logs and lumber is primarily affected by the level of new residential construction activity. This activity is subject to fluctuations due to changes in economic conditions, availability and cost of financing for developers, mortgage interest rates, new and existing housing inventory levels, foreclosure rates, population growth, weather conditions, and other factors. Decreases in the level of residential construction activity usually will be reflected in reduced demand for logs and lumber resulting in lower prices for the Company’s products and lower revenues, profits, and cash flows. In addition to housing starts, demand for wood products is also significantly affected by repair and remodeling activities and industrial uses, demand for which has historically been less cyclical. Furthermore, changes in industry supply of timber affect prices. Although the Company believes sales of timber by United States government agencies will remain at relatively low levels for the foreseeable future, any reversal of policy that substantially increases such sales could significantly reduce prices for logs and lumber, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Furthermore, increased imports from foreign countries could reduce the prices the Company receives for its products. Meanwhile, possible reductions of Canadian imports due to mountain pine beetle infestation could increase prices the Company receives for its products. Limitations on the Company’s Ability to Harvest Timber Revenues from the Company’s future operations will depend to a significant extent on its ability to harvest timber pursuant to its harvest plans from its 445,100 acres of timberlands (the “Timberlands”). Harvesting of the Timberlands may be affected by various natural factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, severe weather conditions, ice storms, higher than normal amounts of rainfall, and other causes. The effects of these natural factors may be particularly damaging to young timber. To the extent possible, the Company implements measures to limit the risk of damage from such natural causes. The Company is a participant with state agencies and other timberland owners in cooperative fire fighting and fire surveillance programs. In addition, the Timberlands’ extensive system of access roads, firelines, and the physical separation of various tracts provide some protection against fire damage. Nonetheless, one or more major fires on the Timberlands could adversely affect Deltic’s operating results. The Timberlands may also be affected by insect infestation, particularly by the southern pine beetle, and by disease. Additionally, the Timberlands may be affected by severe weather conditions, especially ice storms, tornados, and heavy winds. Although damage from such natural causes usually are localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting the Timberlands will, in fact, be so limited. As is typical in the forest products industry, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to the Timberlands. The Company does, however, maintain insurance for loss of logs due to fire and other occurrences following their receipt at the Company’s sawmills. Operation of Sawmills The Company’s sawmills are located at Ola in central Arkansas and Waldo in southern Arkansas. The operations of the sawmills are dependent on various factors and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue such operations at current levels of production or that suspension of such operations may not be required in the future. One such factor is the ability of the Company to procure sufficient logs at suitable prices. The Company obtains logs for its sawmills from the Timberlands, other private sources, and federal lands. As previously discussed, prices for logs are cyclical and affected primarily by demand for lumber and other products produced from logs. Another such factor is the ability of the Company to find an outlet for the large volume of residual wood products that result from the milling process. The Company currently markets such products to third parties for the 13 Table of Contents production of paper and other uses. In addition, the Company sells a significant portion of its residual wood chips to Del-Tin Fiber, a joint venture medium density fiberboard plant, in which the Company owns a 50-percent interest. The continued operation of the sawmills is subject generally to the risk of business interruption in the event of a fire or other natural disaster, regulatory actions, or other causes. Deltic mitigates this risk through the procurement of casualty and business interruption insurance. The American Lumber Standards Committee is currently reviewing and testing the design values of all species of visually graded dimension lumber, and in January 2012, it adopted a reduced value for Southern Pine 2X4 lumber for grades No. 2 and lower, effective in June 2012. The timing for completion of this testing process and its impact on lumber markets is currently unknown. However, the Company has lumber stress rating machines at each of its sawmills and already produces a portion of its sales mix as Machine-Stress-Rated (“MSR”) lumber. Del-Tin Fiber Deltic owns 50 percent of the membership interest of Del-Tin Fiber, a joint venture to manufacture and market MDF. The Del-Tin Fiber plant is located near El Dorado, Arkansas. Construction of the plant was completed, and initial production began, in 1998. Demand for MDF is subject to many of the same factors as other wood products such as housing starts, furniture production, residential improvements, import fluctuations, and industry capacity. The industry is also facing higher costs resulting from compliance with California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) regulations. Additionally, Del-Tin Fiber operations are subject to risk of business interruptions due to fire or other natural disasters, regulatory actions, or other causes. Del-Tin Fiber procures casualty and business interruption insurance to mitigate this risk. A decline in prices or demand for MDF or disruptions in the manufacturing operations at the Del-Tin Fiber plant could impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows in future periods, as well as Deltic’s ability to exit the MDF business if desired in the future. Competition The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. The products of the Company are subject to increasing competition from a variety of non-wood and engineered wood products. In addition, the Company is subject to a potential increase in competition from lumber products and logs imported from foreign sources. Any significant increase in competitive pressures from substitute products or other domestic or foreign suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Federal and State Environmental Regulations The Company is subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, the provisions and enforcement of which are expected to become more stringent in the future. The Company has made and will continue to make non-material expenditures to comply with such provisions. Based on currently available information, the Company believes environmental regulation will not materially adversely affect the Company, but there can be no assurances that environmental regulation will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of the Company in the future. Climate control legislation being considered by Congress or potentially more restrictive guidelines issued by governmental regulatory agencies are examples of changes that, if approved, could increase compliance costs as well as direct manufacturing expenses. Geographic Concentration and Risk Associated with Real Estate Development The Company’s real estate development projects are located in central Arkansas, specifically, in and west of Little Rock, Arkansas and in Hot Springs, Arkansas. Accordingly, the Company’s real estate operations are particularly vulnerable to any economic downturns or other adverse events that may occur in this region and to competition from nearby residential housing developments. The Company’s results of operations may be affected by the cyclicality of the homebuilding and real estate industries generally. Factors include changes in general and local economic conditions, such as employment levels, consumer confidence and income, housing demand, new and existing housing inventory levels, availability and cost of financing, mortgage interest rates and foreclosures, and changes in government regulation regarding the environment, zoning, real estate taxes, and other local government fees. In addition, the tightening of credit and the economic recession could delay or deter commercial real estate activity and may affect the Company’s operating results. 14 Table of Contents General Economic Conditions A continued stagnation of the housing industry could impact operating results for the Company. Additionally, a deterioration of the global credit markets and continued weakness of the general economy could adversely affect the Company’s access to capital. Similarly, Deltic’s customers and suppliers’ ability to obtain financing could adversely affect the Company’s business if their ability to operate or fund transactions is impaired. Reliance on Key Personnel The Company believes that its continued success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. The Company offers management incentives in a manner that are directly linked to the Company’s performance, which the Company believes will facilitate the attraction, retention, and motivation of highly skilled and qualified personnel. In this regard, the Company has taken steps to retain its key personnel, including the provision of competitive employee benefit programs. Although the Company will seek to employ qualified individuals, in the event that officers or other key employees of the Company cease to be associated with the Company, there can be no assurance that such individuals could be engaged by the Company. Dividend Policy The Company currently intends to pay modest quarterly cash dividends. However, the Company anticipates that future earnings will, for the most part, be used to support operations and finance growth of the business. The payment of any dividends will be at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Company Board”). The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including the Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, funds from operations, future business prospects, and such other factors as the Company Board may deem relevant, and no assurance can be given as to the timing or amount of any dividend payments. Anti-Takeover Effects of Certain Statutory, Charter, Bylaw and Contractual Provisions Several provisions of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or delay unsolicited changes in control of the Company, including provisions creating a classified Board of Directors, limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors, and prohibiting the taking of action by written consent in lieu of a stockholders’ meeting. The preferred stock purchase rights attached to the Company’s common stock could have similar anti-takeover effects. In addition, the Company’s Board has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences of and to issue preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the owners of the Company’s common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. Transactions subject to these restrictions will include, among other things, the liquidation of the Company; the merger, consolidation, or other combination or affiliation of the Company with another company; discontinuance of or material change in the conduct of a material portion of its businesses independently and with its own employees; redemption or other reacquisition of the Company’s common stock; and the sale, distribution, or other disposition of assets of the Company out of the ordinary course of business. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or delay or prevent changes in control or management of the Company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. In addition, these provisions could limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 