ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our profitability is subject to the risks described under this section on “Risk Factors” described below. Although the following are not necessarily the only ones facing our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks: Risks Related to Our Industry In recent years, imports of steel into the United States have adversely affected, and may yet again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which would impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States as a result of excess world supply, have in recent years exerted, and may again in the future exert downward pressure on U.S. steel prices and significantly reduce our sales, margins and profitability. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong, is periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries, and is further intensified during periods when the U.S. dollar is strong relative to foreign currencies. Greater steel exports to the United States tend to occur at depressed prices when steel producing countries experience periods of economic difficulty, decreased demand for steel products or excess capacity. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of U.S. steel prices in some recent years have been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. However, while some tariffs and quotas are currently in effect for certain steel products imported from a number of countries that have been found to have been unfairly pricing steel imports to the U.S., The International Trade Commission in December 2006, for example, as part of its five year review cycle of various steel import duties, voted to revoke all tariffs and countervailing duties on carbon steel plate from 16 countries, and voted to end tariffs on corrosion resistant galvanized steel sheet imported from Canada, France, Australia and Japan. When such tariffs or duties expire or if others are further relaxed or repealed, or if relatively higher U.S. steel prices enable foreign steelmakers to export their steel products 19 to the United States, even despite the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could again create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. China’s current steelmaking overcapacity coupled with a reduction or slowdown in China’s steel consumption could have a material adverse effect on domestic and global steel pricing and could result in increased steel exports into the United States. A significant factor in the worldwide strengthening of steel pricing over the past several years has been the explosive growth in Chinese steel consumption, which had until recently vastly outpaced that country’s capacity to produce steel in sufficient quantity to serve its internal demand, particularly during 2004. The shortage of Chinese domestic steel supply resulted not only in heightened Chinese demand for imported steel and other raw materials, with a consequent upward spiral in world wide steel pricing, but also led to a rapid and significant expansion of steel production capacity in China. That, in addition to the existence of a large amount of outdated, inefficient and government subsidized production capacity, has resulted in a situation in which China’s steel producing capacity currently exceeds that country’s demand for certain steel products. A combination of a slowdown in China’s economic growth rate and its consumption of steel, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, has caused a reduction and could result in a substantial weakening of both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. Should Chinese steelmaking capacity further increase or its demand weaken, China might not only become a net exporter of steel but many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output currently feeds China’s steel import needs could find their way into the U.S. market, through increased steel imports, thus causing an erosion of margins and a reduction in pricing. In fact, in February 2007, the United States initiated legal action against China before the World Trade Organization, alleging that Chinese government subsidies and tax laws give Chinese steel mills and unfair advantage, and the European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries is preparing to petition the European Union Commission to take anti-dumping action against Chinese imports. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operation levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials such as scrap. Steel producers also consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy have increased significantly, in many cases by a greater margin than corresponding price increases for the sale of steel products. Depending upon applicable raw material and energy prices, over which we may have little control, we and other steel producers may be faced in the future with difficulty in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner or for reasonable costs, resulting in potential production curtailments. Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry and the industries we serve, particularly the auto industry. The price of steel may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. This fluctuation directly affects our product mix, production volumes and our sales and earnings. The steel industry is highly cyclical and the sale of our products is directly affected by demand for our products in other highly cyclical industries, such as the automotive, oil and gas, gas transmission, residential and commercial/industrial construction, commercial equipment, rail transportation, appliance, agricultural and durable goods industries. Currently, the domestic automotive industry, which is a major consumer of new steel and a major generating of steel scrap, is suffering from a substantial downturn, and continued economic difficulties, stagnant economies, supply/demand imbalances and currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could further decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. We are 20 also particularly sensitive to trends and events, including strikes and labor unrest that may adversely impact these industries. These industries are significant markets for our products and are themselves highly cyclical. Risks Relating to our Business Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. Our stock price may decline substantially as a result of the volatile nature of the stock market and other factors beyond its control. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, including: · the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; · downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; · consolidation by other competitors in the industry; · material company or industry announcements by us or our competitors; · market perceptions concerning the steel cycle and our future earnings prospects; · public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; · governmental regulatory action; or · adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our stock price The future sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could significantly reduce our stock price. It could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through equity offerings in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had 96,983,303 shares of our common stock outstanding. This does not include the 4,410,573 shares of common stock that are issuable upon conversion of our 4% convertible subordinated notes due 2012. In addition, we have filed registration statements under the Securities Act to register shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock option and management incentive plans, thus permitting the resale of such shares by non-affiliates, upon issuance, in the public market without restriction under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2006, options to purchase 2,183,721 shares were outstanding under these stock option plans. We may not continue to pay cash dividends in the future From the time of our initial public offering in 1996, through the second quarter of 2004, we did not declare or pay cash or other dividends on our common stock. We declared and paid aggregate cash dividends of $.125 (twelve and one-half cents) per share and $.20 (twenty cents) per share for 2004 and 2005, respectively. We declared and paid cash dividends of $.10 (ten cents) per share for each of the first and second quarters of 2006 and $.15 (fifteen cents) per share for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2006. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay cash dividends, or, if we do, that we will do so at the current rate. We may elect at any time to retain all future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. Moreover, the terms of our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture relating to our senior notes impose specified restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Even if these restrictions are removed, any future cash dividends will depend our results of operations, financial conditions, cash requirements, the availability of a surplus and other factors. 21 We may encounter supply shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials, energy and transportation. Steel production requires substantial amounts of raw materials and energy, including steel scrap, pig iron, iron ore fines, natural gas, coal and other alloys or materials used in the process of making steel. Any prolonged interruption in the supply of raw materials or energy, or substantial increases in their costs, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The availability and prices of raw materials has substantially increased over the past several years and may also continue to increase. The availability and prices of raw materials may be negatively affected by new laws or regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, and the availability and cost of transportation. Energy costs, including the cost of natural gas and electricity, make up a substantial portion of the cost of goods sold by steel companies, and the price of natural gas and electricity varies as a result of market conditions and other factors beyond the control of steel companies. Moreover, global developments, particularly the dramatic increase in the demand for raw materials, including scrap, and other inputs used in steel manufacturing from China and other Asian countries, have in the past caused shortages and may continue to cause severe shortages and/or substantial price increases in key raw materials, as well as in ocean transportation capacity and costs. Inability to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel products, or the inability to pass on all or any substantial part of such cost increases through scrap or other surcharges, or the inability to provide customers’ needs because of the potential unavailability of key raw materials or other inputs, may have a material adverse effect on Steel Dynamics’ business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Our senior secured credit agreement, the indenture relating to our 9½% senior unsecured notes due 2009 and the indenture relating to our 4% convertible subordinated notes due 2012 contain restrictive covenants that may independently limit our flexibility. Restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements, including our senior secured credit agreement, the indenture relating to our 9½% senior unsecured notes due 2009, and the indenture relating to our 4% convertible subordinated notes due 2012 and any future financing agreements, may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Specifically, these agreements restrict our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make distributions with respect to our capital stock; · repurchase or redeem capital stock; · make some investments; · create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · make some capital expenditures; · enter into transactions with affiliates or related persons; · issue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries; · sell or transfer assets; and · participate in some joint ventures, acquisitions or mergers. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in one or more of these debt agreements could cause a default under our senior secured credit agreement, other debt or the notes. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. 22 We may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. The global markets in which steel companies conduct business are highly competitive and are becoming even more so due to increasing consolidation in the steel industry. Increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The global steel industry has historically suffered from substantial over-capacity, and excess capacity in some of our products will intensify price competition for such products. This could cause us to reduce the price for our products and, as a result, have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We compete primarily on the basis of quality and the ability to meet our customers’ product needs, delivery schedules and price, and some of our competitors may have advantages due to greater capital resources, different technologies, lower raw material and energy costs or favorable exchange rates. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum and plastics (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. Equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steelmaking equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and this equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns, as well as other unusual and unplanned maintenance requirements. Our manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. These disruptions could have an adverse affect on our operations, customer service levels and financial results. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy. Our growth strategy subjects us to various risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other businesses and steel assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks: · the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources than us; · the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into existing businesses; · the potential disruption of ongoing businesses; · the diversion of resources; · the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the difficulty of managing the growth of a larger company; · the risk of entering markets in which we have little experience; 23 · the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial, or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; · the risk of contractual or operational liability to other venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; · the inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; and · the difficulties of terminating joint ventures or strategic alliances. These transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not our sales and earnings may be significantly reduced. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of any future acquisition will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our existing operations in an efficient and effective manner. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results could suffer. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the potential assumption of unknown liabilities, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. Environmental regulation imposes substantial costs and limitations on Steel Dynamics’ operations. We are subject to the risk of substantial environmental liability and limitations on our operations brought about by the requirements of environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning such issues as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous materials and waste handling and disposal, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations are increasingly stringent. While we believe that our facilities are and will continue to be in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, the risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with these laws and regulations are an inherent part of the business, and it is possible that future conditions may develop, arise or be discovered that create substantial environmental remediation liabilities and costs. For example, steelmaking operations produce some waste products, such as electric arc furnace dust, which are classified as hazardous waste and must be properly disposed of under applicable environmental laws. These laws can impose clean up liability on generators of hazardous waste and other substances that are shipped off-site for disposal, regardless of fault or the legality of the disposal activities. Other laws may require us to investigate and remediate contamination at its properties, including contamination that was caused in whole or in part by third parties. While we believe we can comply with environmental legislation and regulatory requirements and that the costs of doing so have been included within budgeted cost estimates, it is possible that such compliance will prove to be more limiting and costly than anticipated. In addition to potential clean up liability, in the past we have been, and in the future may become, subject to substantial monetary fines and penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations or administrative conditions. We may also be subject from time to time to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged property damage or personal injury. 24 Technology, operating and start-up risks associated with our contemplated Mesabi Nugget project may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits and could result in a loss of our investment. While we and certain other joint venture partners built and operated a successful small scale pilot project in Minnesota using Kobe Steel’s proprietary ITmK3’s iron-making process to produce a cost effective iron nugget product, we have no assurance that the full scale commercial plant we are know contemplating, in which we would likely be the dominant investor and owner, will be successful. Although, we believe that a full scale commercial plant should be capable of consistently producing high-quality iron nuggets in sufficient quantities and at a cost that will compare favorably with the cost of scrap and scrap substitute products, including pig iron, there can be no assurance that these expectations can be achieved. If we proceed with this project, which could entail an investment in excess of $100 million, and if we thereafter encounter cost overruns, construction delays or systems or process difficulties during or after start-up, the anticipated capital costs could materially increase, the expected operating cost benefits from the development of this iron nugget product could be diminished or lost, and we could also lose our investment in the project. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 