ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependence on Significant Customers. Our largest customers are Costco and Wal-Mart. Combined, these two customers accounted for approximately 70%, 72% and 75%, respectively, of our total net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Due to the divestitures of our Weider branded business and Haleko Unit, our concentration in these customers has increased. We do not have supply contracts with either Costco or Wal-Mart and therefore cannot assure you that either Costco or Wal-Mart will continue to be significant customers in the future. The loss of either Costco or Wal-Mart as a customer, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by Costco or Wal-Mart, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on Individual Products and Product Lines. Certain products and product lines account for a significant amount of our total net sales. Net sales of our Schiff Move Free brand were approximately 48%, 40% and 39%, respectively, of total net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Due to the divestitures of our Weider branded business and Haleko Unit, our concentration in this brand and the joint care category has increased. We cannot assure you that Move Free or other of our products currently experiencing strong popularity and growth will maintain sales levels over time. A significant decrease in Move Free or joint care category sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. New Products and Product Enhancements. We believe our ability to grow in existing markets is partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products and product enhancements. The development and commercialization process, particularly relating to innovative products, is both time-consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Although we seek to introduce additional products each year, the success of new products or product enhancements is subject to a number of variables, including developing products that will appeal to customers, accurately anticipate consumer needs, be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, be priced competitively, be differentiated from those of our competitors, and comply with applicable regulations. For example, the inability to successfully implement the marketing and spending programs or strategic initiatives in support of Move Free Advanced and other branded products or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our efforts to develop and introduce new products or existing product innovations will be successful, or that customers will accept new products. The failure to successfully launch or gain distribution for new product offerings or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 7 - Table of Contents Risks of Competition and Pricing Pressures. The market for the sale of nutritional supplements is highly competitive. Certain of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities. Private label products of our customers, which have been significantly increasing in certain nutrition categories (including joint care), also create significant competition with our products. Because nutritional supplements can be purchased in various channels of distribution, we also compete with products sold outside of the mass market retail channel, including health food stores, direct sales, direct mail and internet distribution channels. Increased competition from competitors, including expansion of private label products, or increased pricing pressure, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Among other factors, competition among manufacturers, distributors and retailers of nutritional supplements is based upon price. Because of the high degree of price competition, we have not always been able to pass on increases in raw material prices to our customers. If one or more of our competitors significantly reduce their prices in order to gain market share (particularly relating to the joint care category), or if raw material prices increase and we are unable to pass along the increased cost to our customers (particularly relating to the joint care category), our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. A considerable portion of our raw materials relates to our joint care category, which accounts for a significant amount of our total net sales. We cannot assure you that suppliers will provide the raw materials we need in the quantities requested, at a price we are willing to pay or that meet our quality standards and labeling requirements. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers. However, we do have a long-term supply agreement with a third-party supplier for a key ingredient used in our Move Free Advanced product that is proprietary and may only be acquired from that supplier. While we have a contract in place providing for the continuing supply of this ingredient, we cannot assure you that the supplier will continue to supply the ingredient in the quantities we require, or at all. In addition, from time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments regarding certain raw materials, primarily relating to the joint care category. We cannot assure you that the suppliers will supply the raw materials in accordance with the terms of the forward purchase commitments, or at all. Any failure to supply or changes in the material terms of supply by the Move Free Advanced key ingredient supplier or our other raw materials suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to potential delays in the delivery of raw materials caused by events beyond our control, including, among other factors, strikes or labor disputes, transportation interruptions, weather-related events, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, and changes in government regulations. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could, among other things, substantially increase the cost of such materials, require reformulation or repackaging of products, require the qualification of new suppliers, or result in our inability to meet customer demands for certain products. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, particularly with respect to raw materials needed for our joint care products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Raw Material Price Increases. Raw materials account for a significant portion of our manufacturing costs. We have encountered material fluctuations in the pricing of key raw materials in the past, particularly relating to joint care category products. During fiscal 2005 and continuing into fiscal 2006, we experienced margin volatility due to several factors, including significant raw material pricing increases in the joint care category. During fiscal 2005 and early fiscal 2006, as a result of the raw material pricing volatility and the inability to secure acceptable price increases from customers, we discontinued certain private label (contract manufacturing) business. During the fiscal 2006 second and third quarters, raw material pricing in the joint care category decreased and appeared to have stabilized. Accordingly, the price of key raw materials may not remain relatively constant. Significant increases in raw material prices, particularly relating to the joint care category, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not always been able to pass along raw material price increases, and may not be able to do so in the future. Dependence on Raw Materials Acquired From Suppliers Outside the United States. We acquire a significant amount of ingredients for a number of our products (particularly joint care products) from suppliers outside of the United States, particularly China. Accordingly, the acquisition of these ingredients is subject to the risks generally associated with importing raw materials, including, among other factors, delays in shipments, changes in economic and political conditions, quality assurance, nonconformity to specifications or laws and regulations, tariffs, trade disputes and foreign currency fluctuations. While we have a supplier certification program and periodically audit and inspect our suppliers’ facilities both in the United States and internationally, we cannot assure you that raw materials received from suppliers outside of the United States will conform to all specifications, laws and regulations. In addition, the discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, commonly referred to as “mad cow disease,” in a country from which we obtain a significant amount of our raw materials (particularly related to the joint care category) derived from bovine sources could prevent us from purchasing such raw materials in the required quantities, at an acceptable price, or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing, particularly with respect to raw materials needed for our joint care products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 8 - Table of Contents Effect of Unfavorable Publicity. We believe our sales depend on consumer perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products as well as products distributed and sold by other companies. Consumer perceptions are influenced by scientific research or findings and national media attention regarding our products and other nutritional supplements. From time to time, there is some unfavorable publicity or scientific research regarding our industry. If future scientific research or media attention is perceived by consumers as less favorable or questions earlier research or publicity, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research or otherwise, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or similar products with illness or other adverse effects, that questions the benefit of our products or similar products or that claims that any such products are ineffective could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Impact of Government Regulation on Our Operations. Our operations, properties and products are subject to regulation by various foreign, federal, state and local government entities and agencies, particularly the FDA and FTC in the United States. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” Among other matters, government regulation covers statements and claims made in connection with the packaging, labeling, marketing and advertising of our products. Governmental agencies have a variety of processes and remedies available to them, including initiating investigations, issuing warning letters and cease and desist orders, requiring corrective labeling or advertising, requiring consumer redress, seeking injunctive relief or product seizure, imposing civil penalties or commencing criminal prosecution. As a result of our efforts to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, from time to time we have reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of our products and revised certain aspects of our sales, marketing and advertising programs. We cannot assure you that we will not have to make such changes or revisions in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The FDA has proposed extensive good manufacturing practice regulations for dietary supplements. See “Item 1 - Business - Government Regulation.” In addition, we may be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by federal, state, or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which we consider favorable, such as DSHEA, or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. Any or all of these requirements and the related costs to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Product Liability and Availability of Related Insurance. As a manufacturer and distributor of products designed to be ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and litigation. In addition, the manufacture and sale of our products involve the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. We carry insurance coverage in the types and amounts that we believe are reasonably appropriate for our business. However, our current product liability coverage excludes claims relating to certain categories of products and products that contain certain ingredients. In addition, certain damages in litigation, such as punitive damages, are generally not covered by insurance. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or other indemnification coverage, product liability claims and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are currently named as a defendant in a product liability lawsuit allegedly regarding certain of our former ephedra products. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” Subsequent to September 1, 2003, we have not maintained any insurance coverage regarding ephedra products. Our ongoing lawsuit regarding ephedra products is not covered by insurance. In connection with the sale of the American Body Building and Science Foods brands in July 2002, we discontinued the sale of products that contain ephedra. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to further litigation with respect to ephedra products we have already sold. Dependence on Single Manufacturing Facility. We manufacture most of our products at our manufacturing facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facility. Power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, workforce disruptions, natural or other disasters, or the failure to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA, could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we do carry business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be sufficient to cover losses from these types of business disruptions or that this insurance will continue to be available to us at an acceptable price, or at all. Possibility of Product Recalls. Manufacturers and distributors of products in our industry are sometimes subject to the recall of their products for a variety of reasons, including product defects, such as ingredient contamination, packaging safety and inadequate labeling disclosure. If any of our products are recalled due to a product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the unexpected expense of the recall and any legal proceedings that might arise in connection - 9 - Table of Contents with the recall. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third parties. Although we have procedures in place for testing raw materials used in our products, we cannot assure you that any quality, potency or contamination problems will be detected in time to avoid unforeseen product recalls or lawsuits. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover these expenses from our suppliers. Additionally, if one of our significant brands were subject to recall, the image of that brand and our company could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with International Markets. Until the sale of our Haleko Unit and Weider branded business, we had significant international operations, with approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2005 generated outside the United States. Our international sales efforts are now comprised of selling product, particularly our joint care products, from the United States on an export basis to retail customers or distributors abroad. Operating in international markets exposes us to certain risks, including, among others, changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit our ability to sell certain products, the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs and political instability. We are often required to reformulate our products before commencing sales in a given country. We must comply with various and changing local labeling, customs and other regulations. Trademark rights are often difficult to obtain and enforce in countries outside the United States. There is also no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain the necessary permits and approvals necessary for our international efforts. Our inability to successfully launch and maintain sales (especially in the joint care category) outside of the United States while maintaining the integrity of the products sold and complying with local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual Property Rights and Proprietary Techniques. Although the nutritional supplement industry has historically been characterized by products with naturally occurring ingredients in capsule or tablet form, recently it is becoming more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. Although we make efforts not to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our intellectual property licensors. To the extent that these developments prevent us from offering or supplying competitive products or our licensed proprietary ingredient in the marketplace, or result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 1 - Business - Intellectual Property.” We protect our intellectual property related to investments in research and development by relying on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with third parties who have access to information about our research and development activities. When we license our intellectual property from a third party, we typically have contractual rights to require the licensor to adequately protect our intellectual property interests. Nevertheless, we can not guarantee that such measures will be sufficient to protect our interests. Dependence Upon Information Technology Systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected in order to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Although off-site data back-up is maintained, an interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Control by Principal Stockholder. WHF owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing over 90% of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Three of our directors also serve on the board of directors of WHF. WHF is in a position to exercise control over us and to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval (except as otherwise provided by law or by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws) and otherwise to direct and control our operations. Accordingly, we cannot engage in any strategic transactions without the approval of WHF. Acquisitions and Investments. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, enhancing business development and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions and investments when attractive opportunities arise. We cannot assure you that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisitions or that any acquisitions which are consummated will prove to be successful. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. - 10 - Table of Contents ITEM 