ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including the following: The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our revenue, cash flows and earnings, and our ability to access financing. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recent events have paralyzed credit markets and sparked a serious global banking crisis. Many economists foresee a slow and uncertain recovery of credit markets, and an emerging global recession. While we intend to finance our operations with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing under our existing credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our continued growth. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, access to capital may be limited on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, many of our customers access the credit markets to finance their oil and natural gas drilling and production activity. Therefore, our customers may also reduce their drilling activity as a result of the current crisis in the global credit market. Companies that planned to finance exploration or development projects through the capital markets may be forced to curtail, reduce, postpone or delay drilling activity, and also may experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us. Such reductions or delays could negatively impact our revenues, cash flows and earnings. The deteriorating global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals, and the potential decrease in demand for drilling rigs could cause the oil and gas industry to cycle into an extended downturn. Such a condition could have a material adverse impact on our business. An extended deterioration in the global economic environment may impact fundamentals that are critical to our industry, such as the global demand for, and consumption of, oil and natural gas. Reduced demand for oil and natural gas generally results in lower oil and natural gas prices and may impact the economics of planned drilling projects, resulting in curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement for an indeterminate period of time. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will reduce oil and natural gas drilling and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect the demand for sales or rentals of our top drive units and for our Tubular Services and CASING DRILLING businesses. Fluctuations in the demand for and prices of oil and gas could negatively impact our business. Fluctuations in the demand for and prices of oil and gas impact the levels of drilling activity by our customers and potential customers. The prices are primarily determined by supply, demand, government regulations relating to oil and gas production and processing, and international political events, none of which can be accurately predicted. In times of declining activity, not only is there less opportunity for us to sell our products and services but there is increased competitive pressure that tends to reduce prices and therefore margins. We face risks due to the cyclical nature of the energy industry and the corresponding credit risk of our customers. Changing political, economic or military circumstances throughout the energy producing regions of the world can impact the market price of oil and gas for extended periods of time. As most of our accounts receivable are with customers involved in the oil and gas industry, any significant change in such circumstances could result in financial exposure in relation to affected customers. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any significant consolidation or loss of end-user customers could have a negative impact on our business. Exploration and production company operators and drilling contractors have undergone substantial consolidation in the last few years. Additional consolidation is probable. In addition, many oil and gas properties could be transferred over time to different potential customers. Consolidation of drilling contractors results in fewer end-users for our products and could result in the combined contractor standardizing its equipment preferences in favor of a competitor’s products. In addition, merger activity among both major and independent oil and gas companies also affects exploration, development and production activity, as these consolidated companies attempt to increase efficiency and reduce costs. Generally, only the more promising exploration and development projects from each merged entity are likely to be pursued, which may result in overall lower post-merger exploration and development budgets. Moreover, some end-users prefer not to use relatively new products or premium products in their drilling operations. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks could materially impact our business. The occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause a decrease in spending by oil and gas companies for exploration and development. In addition, these risks could trigger increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas which could also adversely affect spending by oil and gas companies. A decrease in spending for any reason could adversely affect the markets for our products and thereby adversely affect our revenue and margins and limit our future growth prospects. Moreover, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and adversely affect our ability to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are required to obtain by our contracts with third parties. Our revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations period over period and are difficult to forecast. Our revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon: • the level of drilling activity worldwide, as well as the particular geographic focus of the activity; • the variability of customer orders, which are particularly unpredictable in international markets; • the levels of inventories of our products held by end-users and distributors; • the mix of our products sold or leased and the margins on those products; • new products offered and sold or leased by us or our competitors; • weather conditions or other natural disasters that can affect our operations or our customers’ operations; • changes in oil and gas prices and currency exchange rates, which in some cases affect the costs and prices for our products; • the level of capital equipment project orders, which may vary with the level of new rig construction and refurbishment activity in the industry; • changes in drilling and exploration plans which can be particularly volatile in international markets; • the variability of customer orders or a reduction in customer orders, which may leave us with excess or obsolete inventories; and • the ability to manufacture and timely deliver customer orders, particularly in the top drive segment due to the increasing size and complexity of our models. In addition, our fixed costs cause our margins to decrease when demand is low and service capacity is underutilized. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our debt and other financing obligations restrict our ability to take certain actions and require the maintenance of certain financial ratios; failure to comply with these requirements could result in acceleration of our debt. Our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Additionally, our credit agreements are collateralized by equity interests in our subsidiaries. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. We have outstanding debt that is not contracted at market rates. Our credit facility contains provisions for interest rates on borrowings and commitment fees that were established prior to the credit crisis and probably could not be replaced at the same value in today’s market. If we needed to replace our credit facility in today’s uncertain bank loan market, for any reason, including an event of default on our part, we may be unable to negotiate lending terms at the same rates, or for the same borrowing capacity, that we currently hold. Any change in the terms of our fees or borrowing capacity could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. At this time it is difficult to forecast the future state of the bank loan market. As a result of the uncertain state of various financial institutions and the credit markets generally, we may be unable to maintain our current borrowing capacity in the event of bank or banks failure to fund any commitments under the current credit facility, and we may not be able to refinance our bank facility in the same amount and on the same terms as we currently hold, which could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with turmoil in the financial markets. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets are continuing to experience wide fluctuations in value. As a result, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition. If any of the significant lenders, insurance companies or other financial institutions are unable to perform their obligations under our credit agreements, insurance policies or other contracts, and we are unable to find suitable replacements on acceptable terms, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected. We also face challenges relating to the impact of the disruption in the global financial markets on other parties with whom we do business, such as our customers and vendors. The inability of these parties to obtain financing on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with us and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including business disruption, decreased revenues and increases in bad debt write-offs. A sustained decline in the financial stability of these parties could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Concentration of our revenue and management in the United States involves risk. In 2008 approximately 52% of our revenue was obtained from operations in the U.S. (compared to 61% during 2007). The concentration of revenue and management functions in the U.S. involves certain risks, including the following: • increased vulnerability to fluctuations in the U.S. economy; in particular, a severe economic downturn or prolonged recession in the U.S. could have a greater impact on our ability to do business than would otherwise be the case; 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • fluctuations in the valuation of the U.S. dollar during 2008, particularly in relation to the Canadian dollar, may negatively impact our financial results. Future devaluation of the U.S. dollar could increase our Canadian manufacturing costs and our cost of doing business outside of the U.S. in general and it may not be possible to raise the prices and rates we charge customers in U.S. dollars to compensate for these increased costs, or to hedge our exposure to devaluation of the U.S. dollar through currency swaps and other financial instruments; and • the U.S. limits the number of visas available to non-U.S. professionals and executives who wish to work in the U.S. The potential inability to obtain such a visa may prevent us from transferring our non-U.S. employees to the U.S., or may restrict our ability to recruit qualified international executives to fill management positions at our corporate headquarters. Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks. We sell products and provide services in parts of the world where the political and legal systems are very different from those in the United States and Canada. In places like Russia, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia/Pacific, we may have difficulty or extra expense in navigating the local bureaucracies and legal systems. We may face challenges in enforcing contracts in local courts or be at a disadvantage when we have a dispute with a customer that is an agency of the state. We may be at a disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to the same international trade and business practice restrictions that U.S. and Canadian law impose on us. While diversification is desirable, it can expose us to risks related to cultural, political and economic factors of foreign jurisdictions which are beyond our control. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these risks. Such risks include: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars or insurrection; • the effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems; • changes or interpretations in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including those associated with changes in the governing parties, nationalization, and expropriation; and • protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations. We operate in an intensively competitive industry and if we fail to compete effectively our business will suffer. Competitive risks may include decisions by existing competitors to attempt to increase market share by reducing prices and decisions by customers to adopt competing technologies. The drilling industry is driven primarily by cost minimization. Our strategy is aimed at reducing drilling costs through the application of new technology. Our competitors, many of whom have a more diverse product line and access to greater amounts of capital, have the ability to compete against the cost savings generated by our technology by reducing prices and by introducing competing technologies. Our competitors may also have the ability to offer larger bundles of products and services to customers that we do not offer. We have limited resources to sustain a prolonged price war and maintain the investment required to continue the commercialization and development of our new technologies. To compete in our industry, we must continue to develop new technologies and products. The markets for our products and services are characterized by continual technological developments and we have identified our products as providing technological advantages over other competitive products. As a result, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of product function and performance can occur over a 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements short period of time. If we are not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business may be adversely affected. Our future ability to develop new products depends on our ability to: • design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of our customers, • successfully market new products, and • obtain and maintain patent protection. We may encounter resource constraints, technical barriers, or other difficulties that may delay introduction of new products and services in the future. Our competitors may introduce new products or obtain patents before we do and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial applications. For example, from time to time, we have incurred significant losses in the development of new technologies which were not successful for various commercial or technical reasons. If we are unable to successfully implement technological or research and engineering type activities, our growth prospects may be reduced and our future revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, or lack of demand. We provide warranties on our products and if our products fail to operate properly our business will suffer. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the equipment we manufacture. Our products are often deployed in harsh environments including subsea applications. The failure of these products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past experienced quality problems with raw material vendors, which required us to recall and replace certain equipment and components. We have also in the past received warranty claims and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. Such claims may exceed the reserve we have set aside for them. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period because of quality issues with our products, our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Our profitability is driven to a large extent by our ability to deliver the products we manufacture in a timely manner. Disruptions to our production schedule may adversely impact our ability to meet delivery commitments. If we fail to deliver products according to contract terms, we may suffer financial penalties and a diminution of our commercial reputation and future product orders. We rely on the availability of raw materials, component parts and finished products to produce our products. We buy raw materials, components and precision machining or sub-assembly services from many different vendors located in Canada, the United States, Europe, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. The price and lead times for the forgings have increased along with the general increase of steel prices around the world. Further, uncertainty regarding compliance with certain material toughness specifications may make it necessary for us to order additional forgings to manufacture certain replacement parts. We also source a substantial amount of electrical components, including permanent magnet motors and drives as well as a substantial amount of hydraulic components, including hydraulic motors, from suppliers located in the U.S. The inability of suppliers to meet performance, quality specifications and delivery schedules could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The design of some of our equipment is based on components provided by specific sole source manufacturers. Some of our products have been designed around components which are only available from one source of supply. In some cases, a manufacturer has developed or modified the design of a component at our request, and consequently we are the only purchaser of such items. If the manufacturer of such an item should go out of business or cease or refuse to manufacture the component in question, or raise the price of such components unduly, we may have to identify alternative components and redesign portions of our equipment. This could cause delays in manufacturing and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet outstanding orders or accept new orders for the manufacture of the affected equipment. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and key employees, and the loss of such employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans. As a technology-based company, we depend upon skilled engineering and other professionals in order to engage in product innovation and ensure the effective implementation of our innovative technology, especially CASING DRILLING. We compete for these professionals, not only with other companies in the same industry, but with oil and gas service companies generally and other industries. In periods of high energy and industrial manufacturing activity, demand for the skills and expertise of these professionals increases, which can make the hiring and retention of these individuals more difficult and expensive. Failure to recruit and retain such individuals may result in our inability to maintain a competitive advantage over other companies and loss of customer satisfaction. The loss or incapacity of certain key employees for any reason, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Julio M. Quintana, could have a negative impact on our ability to implement our business plan due to the specialized knowledge these individuals possess. Our business relies on the skills and availability of trained and experienced trades and technicians to provide efficient and necessary services to us and our customers. Hiring and retaining such individuals are critical to the success of our business plan. Retention of staff and the prevention of injury to staff are essential in order to provide high level of service. Our products and services are used in hazardous conditions, and we are subject to risks relating to potential liability claims. Most of our products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can have catastrophic consequences. For example, the unexpected failure of a top drive to rotate a drill string during drilling operations could result in the loss of control over a well, leading to blowout and the discharge of pollutants into the environment. Damages arising from an occurrence at a location where our products are used have in the past and may in the future result in the assertion of potentially large claims against us. While we attempt to limit our exposure to such risks through contracts with our customers, these measures may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment, damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters, and losses resulting from business interruption. Our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a self-insured retention, and may not be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. Moreover, we may not be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any significant claims made under our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance, are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce the our earnings and cash available for operations. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have been party to patent infringement claims and we may not be able to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. In three separate actions, we were sued by VARCO I/P, Inc. (“Varco”), Franks International, Inc. (“Franks”) and Weatherford International, who have alleged that our CDS tool and other equipment and processes violate certain of their patents. See Part I, Item 3. (“Legal Proceedings”), below. We believe that these suits are without merit and we intend to continue to defend ourselves vigorously. In the event that we are not successful in defending ourselves in one or more of these matters, it may have a material adverse effect on our Tubular Services and CASING DRILLING segments and, therefore, on our business. In addition, in the future we may be subject to other infringement claims and if any of our products were found to be infringing, our consolidated financial results may be adversely affected. Some of our products and the processes used to produce them have been granted U.S. and international patent protection, or have patent applications pending. Nevertheless, patents may not be granted from our applications and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Recent changes in U.S. patent law may have the effect of making certain of our patents more likely to be the subject of claims for invalidation. Our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents. This is especially true internationally where the protection of intellectual property rights may not be as effective. In addition, obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection internationally may be significantly more expensive than doing so domestically. We may have to spend substantial time and money defending our patents. After our patents expire, our competitors will not be legally constrained from marketing products substantially similar to ours. We are subject to legal proceedings and may, in the future, be subject to additional legal proceedings. We are currently involved in legal proceedings described below in Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” From time to time, we may become subject to additional legal proceedings which may include contract, tort, intellectual property, tax and other claims. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. The energy industry is affected by changes in public policy, federal, state and local laws and regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental and other policy reasons may adversely affect our operations due to our customers having limited drilling and other opportunities in the oil and gas exploration and production industry. The operations of our customers, as well as our properties, are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. Management has concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. If we discover a material weakness in the future, we may not be able to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our reported results which could have a negative effect on the trading of our securities. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading of our securities. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Management determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2007 and 2008. Although we determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 