Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2 Properties 28 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 77 Item 9B Other Information 79 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11 Executive Compensation 79 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 79 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 79 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 SIGNATURES 80 1 Table of Contents PART I This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate" or "assume" or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth below and under the captions "Risk Factors" contained in Item 1A and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in Item 7. We caution you that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. Business Overview Oplink Communications, Inc. ("we", "Oplink", or the "Company") was incorporated in California in September 1995 and was later reincorporated in Delaware in September 2000. Our headquarter is located at 46335 Landing Parkway, Fremont, California 94538 and our telephone number at that location is +1-510-933-7200. We also have manufacturing, design and research and development facilities in Zhuhai, Shanghai and Wuhan, China and in Taipei and Hsinchu, Taiwan. We design, manufacture and sell optical networking components, modules and subsystems. Our products expand optical bandwidth, amplify optical signals, monitor and protect wavelength performance, redirect light signals, ensure signal connectivity and provide signal transmission and reception within an optical network. Our products enable greater and higher quality bandwidth over longer distances, which reduce network congestion, transmission costs and energy consumption per bit. Our products also enable optical system manufacturers to provide flexible and scalable bandwidth to support the increase of data traffic on the Internet and other public and private networks. We provide over 68 different product categories that are sold as components and modules, or are integrated into custom solutions at the circuit pack or subsystem level. Our high quality optical subsystems and components are used for bandwidth creation, bandwidth management, interconnect and transmission applications. Our products and solutions can be applied to all segments of the fiber optic network infrastructure including long-haul networks, metropolitan area networks ("MANs"), local area networks ("LANs"), mobile backhaul, Cloud networks, Web 2.0 data centers and fiber-to-the-home ("FTTH") networks. We work closely with the world's leading optical networking equipment customers in providing our solution and products to their exacting requirements during the product design and development cycle. This provides us with the ability to respond to the quality, time-to-market, and volume production requirements of our customers when their systems are ready for commercial deployment. Our broad product portfolio features solutions for next-generation reconfigurable optical add-drop multiplexing ("CDC ROADM"), wavelength selective switch ("WSS"), dense and coarse wavelength division multiplexing ("DWDM" and "CWDM," respectively), optical amplification, signal switching and routing, signal conditioning and monitoring, fiber interconnect/termination/distribution and up to 100Gbps high speed transmission applications. Our addressable markets include long-haul networks, MANs, LANs, mobile backhaul, data center Cloud networking and FTTH networks. Our customers include telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers, as well as data centers, Web 2.0 providers and system integrators located around the globe. We also serve as a photonic foundry to provide design, integration and optical manufacturing solutions ("OMS") for advanced and cost-effective components and subsystem manufacturing at our principal facility in Zhuhai, China. We offer expert OMS for the production and packaging of highly-integrated optical subsystems and turnkey solutions, based on a customer's specific product design and specifications. Likewise, we offer lower levels of component integration for customers who place value more on flexibility than turnkey solutions. Our OMS customers include telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers located around the globe. 2 Table of Contents Our transmission product portfolio includes fiber optic transmitters, receivers, transceivers and transponders. Optical transmission products convert electronic signals into optical signals and back into electronic signals, thereby facilitating the transmission of information over fiber optic communication networks. Our optical transmission products are used primarily in MAN, LAN, mobile traffic backhaul, cloud networking and FTTH applications. Our transmission products are engineered with varying levels of integration to suit customers' needs. The lowest level of integration involves separate transmitter and receiver modules, which provides our customers the greatest flexibility in product design by allowing them to place the transmitters and the receivers according to their design specifications. Transceivers provide the next level of integration. Transceivers place both the transmitter and receiver in the same package with a dual fiber or connector interface. We also provide transceivers with build-in transmit and receive optical multiplexing and demultiplexing optical filters so only a single fiber or connector interface is needed for bi-directional optical transmission. We also have a business division, Oplink Connected, which has developed and is selling wireless security and home automation systems that can be monitored and managed with a Smartphone app. The security systems are plug-and-play solutions that are easy to install and eliminate the need for professional installation. As we continue to focus on driving shareholder value and increasing operational efficiencies, we have commenced a process to seek strategic alternatives for this business, including a possible sale of all or part of this business. The Oplink Connected business will be classified as discontinued operations beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Our common stock has been quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol "OPLK" since our initial public offering in October 2000. Our Internet website address is www.oplink.com. Our website address is given solely for informational purposes; we do not intend, by this reference, that our website should be deemed to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to incorporate the information available at our Internet address into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. These reports can also be obtained from the SEC's Internet website at www.sec.gov or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to June 30 of each year. Interim fiscal quarters will end on the Sunday closest to each calendar quarter end. Fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 consisted of 52 weeks. For further information, please see "Note 1 – The Company" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Solution We are a leader in the optical industry and are uniquely positioned to provide unparalleled OMS to our customers for the cutting edge, integrated solutions that can be rapidly and cost effectively deployed in communications networks around the world. Our OMS business represents customized optical solutions at the circuit pack and subsystem levels. The customized, variety-rich, engineering-support-intensive and high reliability nature of optical equipment manufacturing makes our OMS service an ideal choice for system and subsystem companies seeking a cost-effective manufacturing partner. We possess the expertise and versatility in product design and development to provide the high responsiveness and flexibility much expected in today's markets, leading to shortened design cycle time and reduced production cost. Such design, new production introduction and in-house volume manufacturing capabilities are vertically integrated primarily at our 574,000 square feet facility in Zhuhai, China, which is equipped with an 182,000 square feet Class-100K clean room. 3 Table of Contents We offer a wide range of engineering and design services, which include: - Optic-centric design; - Electrical system design; - Software and firmware development; - Thermal management; - Mechanical design; - System integration; and - Standards compliance. We offer customers turnkey solutions including the following value-added services: - Optical Product Design and Optimization. We provide optical design, mechanical design, printed circuit board ("PCB") layout and electrical design and software and firmware design services to our customers. - Prototyping. To facilitate successful and timely new product introductions, our manufacturing team rapidly delivers small quantities of products, or prototypes, to test and ensure product functionality and viability prior to volume production. - Expert Assembly and Packaging. We offer extensive experience in integrated assembly and packaging optimization to meet even the most challenging specifications. - Testing. We carry out full optical and electrical system and component testing for customers to test for reliability, compliance and subsystem integration. - System Integration. We provide full system integration with performance testing, validation and guaranteed product performance. The integration and testing can be performed with any customer specified hardware or designs. - Customer Care. We provide preorder and post-sales customer support, access to engineering support, flexible order fulfillment/shipment and customer training around the globe. - Comprehensive Supply Chain Management. We employ a synchronized and fully integrated supply chain model that addresses integration challenges specific to the optical environment as well as key logistical concerns. We leverage our extensive expertise in the optical industry in our selection of reliable suppliers with the highest quality products for customers. - Global Distribution. We provide customers with the flexible, worldwide shipment of assembled product. Our Strategy We provide highly integrated optical sub-systems, pioneering design services and custom solutions to network equipment makers. By leveraging our well-established core competencies in optical design and manufacturing, we are able to serve not only equipment makers selling to end-customers, but also module and component makers in need of a manufacturing partner. The core elements of our strategy are: Strengthening and expanding our leadership in passive optical products. We have successfully transformed from a pure components maker from our inception through IPO to a leading supplier today offering a comprehensive product portfolio encompassing passive components, modules and subsystems. We believe that our dedication to developing a diversified product line together with our manufacturing efficiency has positioned us well to provide system equipment makers with state-of-the-art tools, e.g., ROADM or its building blocks such as WSS, optical 4 Table of Contents amplifier, amplifier array, multiplexer/demultiplexer, multicast switch, tunable filter and optical performance monitor, for enhancing bandwidth provisioning and lowering network costs. It is projected that with the ever-increasing demand for bandwidth fueled by Cloud computing, mobile traffic, peer-to-peer networking traffic, internet video content, file sharing, IPTV, online gaming, music downloading and a myriad of other applications, the network infrastructure build-out and data center expansion will continue over the coming years. We believe that a focus on strengthening and expanding our leadership in passive optical products, which unlike the active products are agnostic to the data rate evolution to 40G/100G/200G/400G, is central to our business success in the future. Innovation through integration and miniaturization based on commercially proven technology platforms. We understand that developing new products requires substantial investment with long and uncertain profitability cycles. As such, we seek to leverage our product development spending through incremental integration/hybridization and miniaturization based on existing technology platforms that are already widely available, including optical thin-film coating, free-space micro-optics, fused fiber optics, Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems ("MEMS"), Planar Lightwave Circuit ("PLC") or Arrayed-Waveguide Grating ("AWG") and Liquid Crystal ("LC"). In addition, we are proactively exploring optical technologies established outside the telecom industry to cultivate product ideas which could benefit our core business growth. Growing market share in 10G and 100G transceivers for metro and Web 2.0 data center applications. We are focused on seeking to offer our customers best-in-class pluggable transceivers for 10G and 100G metro/aggregation DWDM and CWDM optical networking applications, capitalizing on the increasing demand for bandwidth upgrade and industry-wide transition from traditional larger footprint, higher power consumption 300-pin transponders to smaller, low power dissipating XFP and SFP+ form factors. We believe that our global product development model with integrated engineering teams both in the US and China will enable our worldwide customers to improve time-to-market with optimal features, performance and cost. To address diverse customer network deployment conditions, we offer a broad portfolio of 10G DWDM and CWDM XFP and SFP+ products with a wide range of operating temperature ranges, as well as cost-effective non-coherent direct detection 100G DWDM CFP and CFP2 solutions. Enhancing engineering capabilities in China. In parallel to building solid manufacturing operations in China, we have recognized the equal importance of leveraging the local talent in product design and development and significantly increased the engineering workforce in our facilities in Zhuhai and Wuhan, China. While research and development ("R&D") resources in the U.S. participate in customer application support and focuses on developing advanced IP and prototypes, engineering teams in China have taken on an increasingly larger role in new product introduction. As a result, we are able to maintain relative lower overhead expense to better compete in the marketplace and deliver shareholder value. One-Stop-Shop OMS solution provider. As an inventor and leader of the OMS or photonic foundry model, we offer a one-stop-shop approach or turnkey solutions that are customized to our customers' specific needs. One-stop-shopping is being increasingly demanded by our customers, the telecommunications network vendors. Our customers are increasingly requiring optical component suppliers to take advantage of developments in product integration to provide solutions incorporating multiple optical components on a single subsystem or module, thereby reducing the need for component assembly and additional testing. Therefore, we believe that suppliers like us who are able to offer a more integrated manufacturing solution to customers will have an advantage over suppliers who can only offer discrete optical components. The vertical integration of our design and manufacturing capability enables us to consistently deliver the highest quality, lowest cost products to our customers as well as to respond rapidly to design or specification changes which would shorten our customer's time-to-market. We believe that offering a broad range of solutions increases our penetration of existing and new customers. Continuous focus and deepening vertical integration to improve our cost structure. We maintain vertically integrated photonic manufacturing facilities in low-cost overseas locations. Our low-cost manufacturing facilities allow us to do full design work in-house which enables us to supply cutting edge products at the lowest possible cost in the industry. In an industry characterized by intense price competition and at times price erosion, our low-cost structure is a source of sustainable competitive advantage. This sustainability comes from the fact that we believe our design and manufacturing facilities are difficult and expensive to replicate by other firms. Despite our existing streamlined cost structure, we continuously identify and implement cost-saving programs across our organization. 5 Table of Contents The increase in the worldwide demand for broadband increases the demand for our products. With our vertically integrated cost structure, it further leads to greater capacity utilization and therefore greater operating leverage as fixed costs are spread over a greater number of manufactured units, resulting in improved gross margins. Customer satisfaction. We place a high value on our relationships with our customers around the world, large and small. To date, we have created more than 10,000 customized product specifications to fulfill customers' exact requirements. We believe that building a long-term mutual trust with our customers is instrumental to nurture sustainable business growth and cultivate a healthy ecosystem. Products and Technologies We provide a broad line of fiber optic subsystems and components designed to satisfy the needs of communications equipment suppliers. We categorize our products by the functionalities provided within a network, namely, bandwidth creation, bandwidth management, optical interconnect and transmission products. Some of our products have attributes that combine multiple functions. Some of our bandwidth creation and bandwidth management products utilize telecommunication interfaces to provide local or remote reporting and control to enhance their function in an optical network. Bandwidth Creation Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth creation products to expand the capacity and/or extend the coverage of their customers' networks. Other bandwidth creation products enable optical signals to travel along more complex network architectures such as mesh networks and metro networks, or enable optical signals to travel greater distances over traditional long haul networks. Wavelength Expansion Products. In fiber optic communications, different signals are transmitted over multiple wavelengths. With increases in the number of wavelengths and data rates, spacing between the channel wavelengths narrows and it becomes increasingly difficult to separate and combine them. We offer wavelength expansion products that are designed to enable the combination and separation of individual wavelengths in all parts of the network including emerging access, metro networks and long haul networks. We offer the following products to handle these tasks: - Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexers ("DWDM"). A DWDM is a solution for scalable, reliable, protocol independent bandwidth creation. A DWDM is an integrated optical module or subsystem that combines two or more wavelengths for transmission over a single fiber or separates these wavelengths at the receiving end. Our DWDM module and subsystem solutions are derived from an array of high performance technologies including thin-film filters and arrayed waveguide grating, or AWG. Our solutions are available in a variety of channel spacing. - Coarse Wavelength Division Multiplexers ("CWDM"). A CWDM, is a solution for cost-effective bandwidth creation in the mobile backhaul, access, cable TV and metro environments. A CWDM is an integrated Mux/Demux module or subsystem that combines/separates, respectively, two or more wavelengths at a channel spacing that is defined much wider than that for standard DWDM. - Band Wavelength Division Multiplexers ("BWDM"). BWDM, products help manage multiple International Telecommunication Union, or ITU, channels within Mux/Demux or optical add/drop applications. BWDM products facilitate the design of flexible (pay as you grow) low loss architectures as well as enable the design of complex mesh and ring networks. We offer a variety of BWDM products for the 50, 100 and 200 GHz channel spacing plans. - DWDM Interleavers. A DWDM interleaver is an optical component that combines two sets of light signals each spaced at alternating ITU channel numbers from two separate fibers into a single fiber, which effectively doubles the capacity of the optical network system, or conversely, separates a single light source into two sets of alternately spaced signals. This unique bandwidth doubling capability, together with the AWG module, enables a cost-effective Mux/Demux solution for network operators with the pay-as-you-grow upgrade option for today's 50GHz grid network. Our interleaver has also facilitated the deployment of network that is founded on Photonic Integrated Circuit ("PIC"). 6 Table of Contents Optical Amplification Products. Optical fiber amplifiers are widely deployed in optical communications networks to enhance the optical signal power. Optical signals naturally lose power and eventually are lost after traveling a long distance along an optical fiber in traditional long haul networks. In emerging access or metro networks, optical signals lose power also at add/drop nodes, which are those locations in a network where wavelength channels enter or exit the node. Such attenuated optical signal can be intensified with Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers ("EDFA"), or with Raman amplifiers, neither of which require optical-to-electrical conversion. The amplifiers are arranged along fiber cable lines at regular intervals in long haul networks or at selected nodes in access and metro networks to enable the optical signal to reach its destination clearly. A typical amplifier consists of a fiber, one or multiple pump lasers and a number of passive fiber optic components. We offer both the EDFA and Raman amplification products except the standalone third party pump laser. Our optical amplification products include the following: - Gain Blocks ("GB"). Gain blocks are integrated optical subsystem building blocks consisting of Erbium Doped Fibers ("EDFs"), one or multiple pump lasers and passive fiber optic amplifier components to boost the intensity of an incoming optical signal. The electronic control circuit is excluded from the gain block. Pump lasers are active optical components used in optical amplifiers such as EDFAs to amplify or regenerate light signals that naturally suffer loss while traveling over distance within an optical network. - Raman Gain Modules. Raman gain modules achieve signal amplification by employing multiple high power pump lasers in the 1400nm range and passive fiber optic components based on the stimulated Raman scattering principle in a distributed manner over kilometers of the regular fiber rather than using the EDF. The resulting benefits are lower noise and therefore higher optical signal-to-noise ratio ("OSNR"), facilitating longer signal reach in the long-haul optical transport network. A Raman gain module is typically used alongside an EDFA in a so-called hybrid amplifier configuration. - EDFAs. Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifiers are optical subsystems that employ, in addition to all the elements used in a gain block, advanced electronics, firmware and software to control the optical gain of an incoming optical signal. - Wavelength Division Multiplexers ("WDM") Pump/Signal Combiners. Micro-optic WDM pump/signal combiners are components that combine power for the optical amplifier. They are used to efficiently combine signal light with pump laser sources. Integrated Hybrid Components. These components can combine the functionality of two or more optical components, including isolator, tap coupler and WDM pump/signal combiner. The main advantage of hybrid components is that they minimize the amplifier package size, increase reliability and reduce manufacturing cost. - WDM Pump Combiners. WDM pump combiners are used to increase the power of an optical amplifier by combining multiple pump lasers of different wavelengths into one common pump source for amplification. - Polarization Beam Combiners. Polarization beam combiners are optical components that combine two light sources of different or same wavelengths but orthogonal polarizations to increase the power output of an optical amplifier. - Integrated Polarization Beam Combiner and Depolarizer ("IPBCD"). Used in Raman or Hybrid Raman/EDFA amplifiers, IPBCD serves the dual function of combining two pump lasers and scrambling the polarization of light to improve amplifier efficiency and performance. - Gain Flattening Filters. Gain flattening filters are used to ensure that signals are amplified by equal amounts. Our thin film filter technology employs multiple layers of optical materials on glass substrate to adjust optical output at different wavelengths to meet the needs of high power amplifiers. - Isolators. Isolators are fiber optic devices that transmit light in only one direction, thus preventing unwanted reflected light from returning to its laser source or EDF. Reflected light can interfere with a laser's performance and create noise, which can impair system performance in optical networks. 7 Table of Contents - Tap Couplers. Tap couplers transfer a small amount of optical signals from the main fiber into a secondary fiber. They are widely used for system monitoring purposes or for power splitting and have a very low insertion loss. Bandwidth Management Products Communications equipment suppliers use our bandwidth management products to add intelligence and flexibility to their systems, which allows communications service providers to control the direction, condition the amplitude or phase, and monitor the performance of light signals throughout the optical network. Optical Switching and Routing Products. As optical networks become more complex, there is an increasing demand to provide switching and routing capability to direct optical signals across multiple points in the network. We supply optical fiber switching and routing products that provide all-optical signal switching between fibers for up to sixty-four different end destinations. Our optical switching and routing products include the following: - Optical Add/Drop Multiplexers ("OADMs"). OADMs are used when part of the information from an optical signal carried on the network is demultiplexed, or dropped, at an intermediate point and different information is multiplexed, or added, for subsequent transmission. The remaining traffic passes through the multiplexer without additional processing. The OADM is typically used for rerouting a number of specific optical wavelengths with different end destinations. OADMs can also include other optical components such as optical conditioning products or optical monitoring products for increased functionality. - Wavelength Selective Switches ("WSS"). WSS provides network operators the ability to remotely and dynamically distribute (i.e., mux/demux and switch), attenuate and block an arbitrary combination of a set of signal wavelengths within a modern ring or mesh network node. Such complex, composite per-wavelength multiplexing, switching and conditioning functionality is achieved all in the optical domain without the optical-to-electrical-to-optical ("OEO") conversion. We provide liquid crystal based in-house solutions that address such fast growing needs in both the high-degree core and low-degree edge networks as operators emphasize flexibility and cost performance in wavelength provisioning. - Reconfigurable OADMs ("ROADMs"). ROADMs combine OADM functionality, WSS, signal amplification, signal monitoring product, electronic control circuitry, integrated firmware and software to add remote configuration and provisioning flexibility to the network by allowing the dynamic add/drop of selected optical wavelengths having variable amplitudes for different end destinations. - Multicast Switch ("MCS"). Typically used in a twin MxN configuration, a twin MCS is a critical building block that enables the contentionless signal Add/Drop function in the next-generation CDC ROADM architecture, where signals of the same wavelength from different light paths arriving at a same M-degree node can be simultaneously dropped or added for service; hence, contention-free, or contentionless. - Switches. Our optical switches, based on opto-mechanical designs, are devices that can direct optical signals to different end destinations. We offer a variety of switch configurations ranging from the most simplistic 1x1 (on-and-off), 1x2 and dual 1x2 (integrated two 1x2's in 1 package) through 2x2, 1x4, 1x8 and 1x16 to the most sophisticated 1x64 that is used in remote fiber test systems for performance monitoring and fault locating to reduce network down time and save operational cost in Passive Optical Network ("PON"), a.k.a. FTTH network. - Circulators. Circulators consist of sophisticated micro-optic components that are used to re-direct optical signals. Circulators are used in dispersion compensation devices that have been widely deployed in modern non-coherent 40G networks, inside some of the WSS products, and in applications where bi-directional signal transmission is called for to save substantial fiber cost and management. Wavelength Conditioning Products. For reliable fiber optic communication systems, the light signal intensity needs to be controlled. For example, excess input power can overload the receivers and an optical attenuator is used to reduce the input signal to the level required by the receiver. Wavelength conditioning products are used in optical networks along with DWDM multiplexers and demultiplexers, optical amplifiers, and re-configurable optical add drop multiplexers to provide the power control functions. Our wavelength conditioning products include the following: 8 Table of Contents - Variable Optical Attenuators ("VOAs"). VOAs, are optical devices that reduce the power of the optical signal in DWDM networks to ensure that all optical signals within a network have desired power. The amount of power reduction of a particular optical signal can be adjusted to match the power of other optical signals in the network thereby enhancing network performance and service quality. - Variable Multiplexers. Variable Multiplexers combine multiple ITU channel signals along with the function of adjusting the power level. The subsystems attenuate the power level of individual ITU signals to achieve equalization of the spectrum or blocking specific channels. - Dynamic Band Equalization Products. Dynamic band equalization products monitor and adjust power levels of multiple bands of ITU channels. These subsystems separate multiple ITU channels into bands of channels, and then monitor and control the power levels of these bands through standard telecommunication interfaces such as RS232 and then combine these multiple bands onto a single fiber. They are used for power equalization in various parts of the network including metro and long haul. Wavelength Performance Monitoring and Protection Products. The ability to monitor wavelengths within an optical network enables service providers to maintain quality of service even in the event of an interruption in the signal path, such as a cut in the fiber. It is significantly more difficult to monitor signal flow in optical systems as compared to electrical systems. Monitoring requires that optical signals be extracted from the fiber without interfering with the optical signal traveling through the same fiber. We offer the following products that enable service providers to monitor network performance and make necessary decisions for traffic flow and network efficiency: - Supervisory Channel WDM. Our supervisory channel WDM is an integrated component that separates the network supervisory channel from the signal channels for use in monitoring the network performance. - Integrated WDM Monitor Arrays. Our integrated WDM monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network wavelength selective power monitoring. This module combines multiple network power monitoring functions in a single module and integrates WDM filters and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not signals are being transmitted properly through the network. - Integrated Tap Monitor Arrays. Our integrated tap monitor arrays convert optical signals into electrical signals for network signal power monitoring. This module integrates a tap coupler, a device that splits the light power, and third-party photo detectors, a device supplied by other optical component manufacturers that receives a light signal in an optical network and converts it into an electrical signal. These integrated modules allow communications service providers to monitor whether or not optical signals are being transmitted properly through the network. - Optical Channel Monitors ("OCM"). Our OCM provides real-time feedback about system performance and adds intelligence to network element management. It uses a single tunable optical filter to sweep through all optical channels, measures the filtered signal with a single photo detector, analyzes the measured spectrum with proprietary algorithm and reports the signal power, OSNR, signal wavelength, signal modulate rate, and signal fidelity. - Wavelength Locker. Our standalone athermal etalon-based locker provides precision wavelength tracking and stabilization of the individual signal channels in a DWDM system. When used with a tap splitter and a tunable filter, a single such wavelength locker can be shared among all signal lasers and thereby eliminate the need of integrating a separate locker inside every laser package, resulting in a lower cost of ownership for the entire system. 9 Table of Contents - Wavelength Protection Subsystems. Our multi-channel wavelength protection subsystems are integrated solutions that combine tap couplers, splitters, switches, electronics, firmware, software and third-party photo detectors. These subsystems integrate network switching protection functions and monitor optical signal quality such as optical power in response to unexpected disruption in the optical network. They provide redundant path protection with fast routing and switching with network fault management and diagnostic capability. Optical Interconnect Products The acquisition of Emit Technology Co., Ltd. ("Emit") in early 2010 enabled us to offer communications system equipment makers a broadened suite of precision-made, cost-effective and reliable optical connectivity products to establish multiple-use, quick pluggable fiber links among network devices for bandwidth deployment, as well as in a test and measurement environment for a wide range of system design and service applications. Connectors and Adapters. Offered in different types and form factors to meet the varying application needs, optical connectors provide a precise and reliable means to terminate the fiber end, whereas adapters provide a pluggable solution for a pair of connectors to be physically coupled repeatedly at consistently low optical power loss. Fixed Attenuators. Designed to reduce a pre-determined amount of light through the fiber to the exact level for added tolerance in system link budget, these in-line pluggable style fixed attenuators offer a compact, high accuracy solution for facile integration into existing systems. Patchcords. These are simplex or duplex fiber optic cables assembled at various specified lengths and jacket ratings, and terminated with connectors of the same or different types at the two ends, providing light connectivity that endures environmental factors and human handling. Termination and Distribution Enclosures. To ensure end-to-end signal integrity amid the increasing demand for better space utilization, this line of products offer a flexible economic solution in rack-, wall- or pole-mountable enclosures for organizing and protecting fiber terminations, splices and cable distribution featuring fiber bend radius control and strain/slack management in indoor and outdoor applications. Transmission Products Our transmission products consists of a comprehensive line of high-performance fiber optic modules, including fiber optic transmitters, receivers, transceivers, and transponders, primarily for use in MAN, LAN, and FTTH applications. Fiber optic modules are integrated optoelectronic components and integrated circuits with embedded control and software that are used to enable network equipment to transmit data over long distance of optical fiber. Our transmission products convert electronic signals into optical signals and back into electronic signals often with build-in microcontroller based signal monitoring and conditioning, facilitating the transmission of information over fiber optic communication networks. SFP Transceivers. Small form-factor pluggable, or SFP, transceivers are "hot-pluggable" optical transceivers that can be removed or inserted into the equipment without turning off the power of the system. This feature allows our customers to readily reconfigure their systems without interrupting their network services, thereby, eliminating system downtime during upgrades and maintenance. SFP Transceivers are for 4Gbps transmission speed or below. Our cam latches are color coded to provide the end-user with an easy way to identify module types in an installed system. SFP+ Transceivers. Enhanced small form-factor pluggable, or SFP+, transceivers are similar products to SFP while delivering the signal at 6-10Gbps. It is also "hot-pluggable" and can be removed or inserted into the equipment without turning off the power of the system. They are initially deployed for 10Gbps LAN, SAN (storage area network) and datacenter applications. With most efficient measurement in Gbps per watt per cubic centimeters, they are increasingly deployed for broader range of applications, including MAN and WDM optical networking applications. 10 Table of Contents XFP Transceivers. 10 Gigabit small form-factor pluggable is a hot-pluggable, protocol-independent optical transceiver with built-in clock and data recovery circuits for 10 Gigabit per second SONET/SDH, Fiber Channel, gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet and other applications, including CWDM and DWDM optical networks. It includes digital diagnostics and the electrical interface specification is a portion of the XFP Multi Source Agreement specification. CWDM Transceivers. Coarse wavelength division multiplexing, or CWDM, transceivers allow the aggregation of multiple channels of optical signals onto a single optical fiber by utilizing different wavelengths. The CWDM transceivers use lasers with wide channel wavelength spacing, typically 20nm, which allows the equipment to achieve a lower overall system cost. This lower cost is the result of a lower transmitter cost with relaxed temperature and wavelength control, as well as a lower optical MUX/DMUX cost due to wider tolerance on the wavelength stability and bandwidth. Our CWDM transceivers are available in all the common industry standard transceiver footprints of 1x9, 2x9, GBIC, SFF, SFP, XFP and SFP+, and provide up to 16 wavelength channels at nominally 1271nm, 1291nm, 1311nm, 1331nm, 1351nm, 1371nm, 1391nm, 1411nm, 1471nm, 1491nm, 1511nm, 1531nm, 1551nm, 1571nm, 1591nm, and 1611nm. They are available in a multi-rate format that allows operation at all speeds from 125 Mbps Fast Ethernet up to 10Gbps 10GbE and OC-192 SONET/SDH. Our CWDM transceiver products are available in industrial operating temperature option (-40 to +85 degrees Celsius). Bi-Directional Transceivers. Bi-Directional transceivers allow full duplex transmission utilizing a single fiber. These transceivers incorporate lasers, receivers and optical filters, allowing simultaneous transmission and reception from a single port or a single fiber. The advantage of Bi-Directional transceiver modules is lower material cost, lower installation cost and lower operational cost for fiber installations, as a result of having to purchase, install, maintain, and administer fewer fibers. Our Bi-Directional transceivers are available in industry standard pluggable modules (SFP) and are compliant to the industry standard known as EFM (Ethernet for First Mile). The data transmission rates cover 125Mbps to 2.5Gbps for Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet and SONET/SDH applications. Our Bi-Directional product families are available in an industrial operating temperature option (−40 to +85 degree Celsius). DWDM Transceivers. Dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, transceivers allow the aggregation of great channel number of optical signals onto single fiber by utilizing different wavelengths with close spacing. The DWDM transceivers use lasers with narrow channel wavelength spacing, typically 0.8nm or 0.4nm. DWDM transceivers enable an optical transport system to increase the transmission capacity significantly over a single fiber. Our DWDM transceivers are available in the SFP, XFP and SFP+ package, and provide up to 88 wavelength channels. DWDM SFP transceivers are available in a multi-rate format that allows operation at all speeds from 125Mb/s up to 2.5Gb/s and accommodate reaches up to 200km. DWDM XFP transceivers are available to support 10GbE and OC192 SONET data rate with or without forward error correction (FEC) at modulation speed up to 11.3Gbps. Both DWDM SFP and XFP transceivers are available for industrial temperature operation (−40 to +85 degree Celsius). DWDM SFP+ transceivers are available to support 10GbE applications with smallest size and lowest power dissipation among all 10Gbps transceivers. Optical Supervisory Channel Transceivers. Optical supervisory channel transceiver is an optical transceiver operating at a pre-determined wavelength outside the EDFA band, and are used to transmit and receive optical channel monitoring messages between amplification and add/drop sites, and throughout the optical networking terminals. GEPON Products. Our GEPON product offering supports optical network unit ("ONU") and optical line terminal ("OLT") applications. The GEPON modules transmit a duplex 1.25Gbps optical signal over a single fiber between the OLT and ONU modules for both 10 kilometer and 20 kilometer transmission ranges. The OLT module transmits via a 1490nm laser source and the ONU unit transmits via a 1310nm laser source. We also offer "Turbo GEPON" transceivers that support 2x GbE data rate for increased bandwidth capacity. 11 Table of Contents 40G/100G CFP/CFP2/CFP4 Transceiver Products. We are in development of state-of-the-art high-data rate transceiver products that enable transmission of optical signals at 40Gbps and 100Gbps over a single fiber. A typical 40G or 100G transceiver includes build-in wavelength division multiplexing of multiple channels of lower speed optical signals for the transmitter side, and demultiplexing of composite multiple channels of lower speed optical signals on the receiver side. With high-degree of integration of optical WDM components with optoelectronics devices, mixed-signal integrated circuits and embedded micro-controller, 40G/100G transceivers enable cost efficient deployment of high bandwidth networking systems. Customers We sell our products worldwide to telecommunications, data communications and cable TV equipment manufacturers worldwide. In certain cases, we sell our products to our competitors or other component manufacturers for their resale or integration into their own products. A small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 51%, 50% and 45% of our revenues in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Coriant (formerly known as Tellabs) and Hua Wei Technologies Co. Ltd. ("Huawei") each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, although potentially not the same customers period to period. For further information, please see "Concentration of Credit Risk" under "Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Backlog We are substantially dependent upon orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times, and which are frequently subject to revision or cancellation. Because of the possibility of changes in delivery or acceptance schedules, cancellations of orders, returns or price reductions, we do not believe that our backlog is a reliable indicator of our future revenues. Marketing, Sales and Customer Support We market and sell our products through both direct sales and distribution channels. We use a global direct sales force based in the U.S. and Asia. Our direct sales force works with our product engineers, product marketing and sales operations teams, in an integrated approach, to address our customers' current and future needs. We currently have outside sales representatives and distributors selling our products in India, Japan and South Korea. Our marketing team promotes our products within the communications industry. We gather and analyze market research data with the intent to become a market-driven supplier that provides cost-effective, value-add solutions to our customer base. Our marketing professionals help us to identify and define next-generation products by working closely with our customers and our research and development engineers. They also coordinate our participation in trade shows and design and implement our advertising effort. Our website provides customers with a comprehensive listing of our broad product portfolio. We provide extensive technical support to our customers during their design and qualification process as well as ongoing post-sales support. Research and Development Our research and development activities are focused on enhancing our current optical communications products and developing new technologies and products to serve the current and next-generation communication markets. Our engineering team has extensive experience in design, packaging, processing, electrical, mechanical, firmware and software in the fields of fiber optic components, integrated optic modules and subsystems. Our primary research and development facilities are located in Fremont, California and Zhuhai and Wuhan, China. We also perform product research and development at our facility in Hsinchu, Taiwan. Our research and development expense was $29.6 million, $25.7 million and $22.4 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Manufacturing We currently manufacture substantially all of our subsystems, modules and components at our manufacturing facilities in Zhuhai, China. We manufacture part of our optical interconnect products at our facility in Taipei, Taiwan. We perform thin film optical coating and precision optics manufacturing in Shanghai, China. We maintain a pilot line at our headquarters in Fremont, California. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone maintains complete in-house manufacturing capabilities including component and module design, integration, production and testing. We plan to continue to invest resources in manufacturing management, engineering and quality control. We also plan to continue to develop automated manufacturing systems to provide higher throughput, improve yields and reduce manufacturing costs. We own our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone totaling approximately 787,000 square feet. Our facility in the Zhuhai Free Trade Zone is used for administration, manufacturing, research and development and employee living quarters. We own our manufacturing facility in Shanghai totaling approximately 46,000 square feet. We also own the Taipei facility totaling approximately 34,000 square feet which maintains complete in-house manufacturing capabilities for our optical interconnect products including product design, supply chain management, quality control, manufacturing and sales and marketing. A number of critical raw materials used in manufacturing our products are acquired from single or limited source suppliers. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of those materials may result in delays, increased costs and reductions in our product shipments. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. To date, such laws and regulations have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the foreseeable future. Quality We have established a quality management system to assure that the products we provide to our customers meet or exceed industry standards. Oplink's products undergo rigorous qualification tests and studies and are conducted according to Telcordia standards. Oplink's ongoing reliability testing builds upon industry standards to establish continuous reliability improvements through intensive tests and performance measures. These systems are based on the international standard ISO 9001. Our U.S. headquarters are third-party certified to the ISO 9001-2008 standard and TL 9000 Telecommunications quality standard. Our manufacturing operations at Zhuhai, China are third-party certified to the ISO 9001-2008 standard, TL 9000 Telecommunications quality standard, and ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 environmental management standards. Competition The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. Our overall competitive position depends upon a number of factors, including: - competitive pricing; - the quality of our manufacturing processes and products; - the breadth of our product line; - offering short-lead times; - availability, functionality, feature, performance and reliability of our products; - our ability to participate in the growth of emerging technologies; - the ability to win designs through prototyping; - established relationships with key customers; 13 Table of Contents - ability to provide technical design support; - the compatibility of our products with existing communications networks; - global economic condition; - manufacturing capacity and capability; and - our financial strength. We believe that our principal competitors are the major manufacturers of optical subsystems and components, including both vendors selling to third parties and business divisions within communications equipment suppliers. The market for fiber optic modules is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors include Alliance Fiber Optic Products, Avago Technologies, DiCon Fiberoptics, Finisar, Furukawa, JDS Uniphase, NEL Hitachi Cable, NeoPhotonics, Oclaro, Optoplex, Santec, Accelink, Photop Technologies/II-VI, O-Net, Source Photonics, Sumitomo Electric and numerous optical component manufacturers in China. We also face indirect competition from public and private companies providing non-fiber optic networking products that address the same networking needs that our products address. Many of our current competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, those of our competitors that have large market capitalization or cash reserves are in a much better position to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our products. Any of these potential acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater brand name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we do. These companies can use their broader customer bases and product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Intellectual Property As of the filing date of this report, we have been granted 193 issued patents and have 24 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for various technologies and products. The terms of our patents are computed in accordance with United States federal patent statutes. In general, this means that a patent will have a term expiring twenty years from its filing date. In addition, we currently have 27 issued patents and 15 pending patent applications in the People's Republic of China, 7 issued patents and 5 pending applications in Taiwan, 3 issued patents and 1 pending application in Canada, 1 issued patent and 6 pending applications in the European Union, and 1 pending application in Japan. While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law and restrictions on disclosure to protect our technology, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to the success of our business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, various unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including China, do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the optical communications industry. We cannot make any assurances that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to our technology. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could seriously harm our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Employees As of June 29, 2014, we had approximately 3,716 employees worldwide, with approximately 155 employees located in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. All of our employees in China are represented by a labor union formed on November 6, 2001, pursuant to the Labor Union Law of China. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Financial Information About Geographic Areas The geographic breakdown of revenues by customers' ship-to location is as follows (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended June 29, 2014 June 30, 2013 July 1, 2012 Revenues: United States $ 80,251 $ 68,199 $ 60,847 China 49,554 49,388 40,793 Europe 22,582 20,792 25,662 Japan 13,953 13,507 15,938 Other 38,441 31,514 31,688 Total $ 204,781 $ 183,400 $ 174,928 The breakdown of property, plant and equipment, net by geographical location is as follows (in thousands): June 29, 2014 June 30, 2013 China $ 37,827 $ 34,640 United States 6,424 6,420 Taiwan 7,862 6,627 Total $ 52,113 $ 47,687 Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter Lee 40 President and Chief Operating Officer Shirley Yin 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer River Gong 51 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales Stephen M. Welles 46 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Joseph Y. Liu, one of our founders, served as our Chief Executive Officer from September 1999 to November 2001. He took the Company public in October 2000 and retired from the CEO position in 2001. In August 2002, Mr. Liu was re-appointed to serve as our CEO and has remained in that position since that time. Mr. Liu has served as a member of our Board of Directors since our inception in 1995, serving as Chairman of the Board from November 2001 to August 2002 and from November 2009 to present. Prior to founding the Company, Mr. Liu was General Partner at Techlink Technology Venturs and Chairman of Techlink Corp., a semiconductor equipment and technology company, for more than ten years. Prior to that, he spent more than five years working as a Semiconductor Processing/Equipment Engineer and Section Manager for Mostek, Motorola and National Semiconductor. Mr. Liu also served as a Board Member of BCD Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., a NASDAQ-listed analog semiconductor company, from September 2000 until its acquisition by Diodes, Inc. in March 2013. Mr. Liu received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from CSU Taiwan and his M.S. in Industrial Engineering from Cal State University, Chico. 15 Table of Contents Peter Lee has served as our President since May 2013 and has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2008. Mr. Lee joined Oplink in August 2000 and held positions as Production Manager, Product Engineering Manager, Director of Product Engineering and since April 2005, Senior Director of Product Line Management ("PLM") and Operations. In May 2007, Mr. Lee was promoted to Vice President of Marketing and PLM, responsible for managing activities in PLM, manufacturing, research and development and strategic planning. Mr. Lee received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University and his M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Columbia University. Shirley Yin has served as our Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and has served as Executive Vice President since April 2010. Ms. Yin joined Oplink in June 2000 as our Accounting Manager and was promoted to Controller in October 2003. From July 2007 to August 2007, Ms. Yin held the position of Vice President, Finance, and Acting Chief Financial Officer. Before joining Oplink, Ms. Yin spent three years at PricewaterhouseCoopers as a Business Assurance Senior Associate. She is a Certified Public Accountant. Ms. Yin received a Bachelor of Economics in Business Management from Zhongshan University in China and her M.S. in Accountancy from the University of Southern California. River Gong has served as our Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales since May 2013. Ms. Gong was promoted to our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales in February 2003. From January 2001 to February 2003, Ms. Gong served as our Sr. Director of Sales, from May 1999 to January 2001 she was Director of Sales, and from January 1998 to May 1999 she was Sales Manager. Prior to joining Oplink, Ms. Gong was Division Manager and Sales Manager of MP Fiber Optics (now Global Opticom), a fiber optics company, from January 1995 to December 1997. Prior to that, she was an architect in China for five years. Ms. Gong received her B.S. in Architecture from Harbin Institute University. Stephen M. Welles has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2013. Mr. Welles joined the Company as our Vice President and General Counsel in May 2008. Mr. Welles was an associate and of counsel with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati in Palo Alto, California from October 1999 to April 2008, and was an associate with Ropes & Gray in Boston, Massachusetts from September 1996 to September 1999. He received his J.D. from Georgetown University and a B.A. in Economics from Boston College. Directors The following table sets forth certain information regarding our directors as of August 31, 2014: Name Age Position Joseph Y. Liu 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chieh Chang 62 Director Tim Christoffersen 72 Director Jesse W. Jack 78 Director Hua Lee 62 Director Joseph Y. Liu's biography is set forth above under "Executive Officers." Chieh Chang has been a member of our Board of Directors since September 1995. Mr. Chang currently serves as the Vice President and Senior General Manager of Worldwide Analog Products at Diodes, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed semiconductor company. Prior to that, Mr. Chang was the Chief Executive Officer of BCD Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., a NASDAQ-listed analog device company, from September 2008 until its acquisition by Diodes in March 2013. Mr. Chang served on the board of directors of Genesis Microchip Inc., a NASDAQ-listed semiconductor company, from November 2004 until its acquisition by STMicroelectronics in January 2008. From February 2000 to February 2003, Mr. Chang served as Chief Executive Officer of Programmable Microelectronics Company, Inc., a fabless semiconductor design company, which later became Chingis Technology Corporation, and which was acquired by Integrated Silicon Solution, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed company, in September 2012. From April 1992 to August 1996, Mr. Chang was the Director of Technology at Cirrus Logic, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Chang received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the National Taiwan University and his M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles. 16 Table of Contents Tim Christoffersen has been a member of our Board of Directors since November 2009. Mr. Christoffersen served on the board of directors of Genesis Microchip Inc. from August 2002 until January 2008. From June 2004 to April 2006, Mr. Christoffersen was Chief Financial Officer of Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. (MPS), a semiconductor company, and served on MPS's board of directors and as chairman of the board's audit committee from March 2004 to July 2004. Mr. Christoffersen served as a financial consultant to technology companies from 1999 to 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Christoffersen served as Chief Financial Officer of NeoParadigm Labs, Inc. from 1998 to 1999 and as Chief Financial Officer of Chips and Technologies, Inc. from 1994 to 1998. Mr. Christoffersen was Executive Vice President, Director and Chief Operating Officer of Resonex, Inc. from 1991 to 1992. From 1986 to 1991, Mr. Christoffersen held several managerial positions with Ford Motor Company. Mr. Christoffersen is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University where he earned a B.A. in Economics. He also holds a Master's degree in Divinity from Union Theological Seminary in New York City. Jesse W. Jack has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2002. Since January 2003, Mr. Jack has been self-employed as an attorney with The Law Offices of Jesse Jack. He is also the Vice President and General Counsel for I-Bus Corporation, a privately held company. From 1994 until January 2003, Mr. Jack was a partner in the law firm of Jack & Keegan, a California Limited Liability Partnership. Mr. Jack served on the board of directors of The Parkinson's Institute from 1988 through 2000. Mr. Jack received his B.S. from California State University, San Jose and his J.D. from Hastings College of Law. Hua Lee has been a member of our Board of Directors since February 2006. Mr. Lee has been Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, Santa Barbara since 1990. Prior to his tenure at the University of California, Santa Barbara, he was on the faculty of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Mr. Lee received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the National Taiwan University, and M.S. and PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara. Item 1A - Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. The following is a discussion that highlights some of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations or financial results. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves many risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a discussion that highlights some of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations or financial results. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. During the past two fiscal years, our GAAP results have fluctuated from net income of $4.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 to a net loss of $4.2 million for the quarter ended June 29, 2014, our most recently completed quarter. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include, among others: 17 Table of Contents - declines in the average selling prices of our products; - fluctuations in the mix of products sold during a quarter (for example, the percentage of total sales represented by lower margin products such as our ROADM products); - fluctuations in demand from datacom customers, which tends to be more volatile than demand from telecom customers; - the availability of materials and components used in our products or increases in the prices of these materials; - special or non-recurring items that can significantly increase or decrease GAAP net income such as charges for excess or obsolete inventory, one-time tax benefits or charges, impairment charges or restructuring charges; - changes in our effective tax rate; - competitive factors in the fiber optic components and subsystems market, including introductions of new products, new technologies and product enhancements by competitors, consolidation of competitors, customers and service provider end users and pricing pressures; - an uncertain macro-economic climate, which could lead to reduced demand from our customers, increased price competition for our products, and increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; - the ability of our manufacturing operations in China to timely produce and deliver products in the quantity and of the quality our customers require; - our inability to cut costs quickly in response to demand downturns, due to the fact that a high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions, are fixed in the short term; and - our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced optical networking products in a timely manner and in production quantities without defects or other quality issues. Our sales to data communications customers have been increasing as a percentage of our overall sales, which may result in more volatility in our quarterly revenue and net income. Our sales to data communications ("datacom") customers have been increasing as a percentage of our overall sales. Demand from datacom customers, in our experience, tends to fluctuate to a greater degree than demand from our traditional telecommunications ("telecom") customers. Our datacom customers are typically the end-users of our products, and their purchases are often be driven by a single project. This can result in strong demand followed by a sharp decrease once the project is completed, or if the project is delayed. In contrast, telecom demand tends to be driven by the capital expenditure plans of the large telecom carriers as they build out and upgrade their network infrastructure, and therefore tends to be longer term in nature. Moreover, our telecom customers typically sell to multiple end-users (carriers), which can also flatten demand fluctuations from single customers. Strong fluctuations in demand from our customers can lead to volatility in our revenue, margins, net income and the price of our common stock. Shifts in our product mix and continuous pricing pressure may result in declines in our gross margins. Our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. Factors that may cause our gross margins to fluctuate include reserve charges for excess inventory, shifts in our products sold, decreases in average selling prices for our products, our ability to successfully develop new products, and our ability to manage manufacturing, labor and materials cost. We must purchase the primary components going into certain of our product families, including our ROADM products and our transceiver products, from third party suppliers, which can limit our ability to improve gross margin on sales of such products. In addition, our industry has been characterized by declining product prices over time, and we are under continuous pressure to reduce our prices to increase or even maintain our market share. 18 Table of Contents We are seeking strategic alternatives for our Oplink Connected business, including a sale of the business, and we may not be able to recover our investment in that business. As we have previously announced, we are seeking strategic alternatives for our Oplink Connected business, including a sale of the entire business unit. The process for seeking interested buyers and investors is underway, but we do not yet know whether we will be successful in finding an interested party willing to pay a meaningful price for the business. If we are unable to find interested buyers, we may consider other alternatives for the business, such as discontinuing its operations, in which case we would be unable to recover our investment in the business. We depend on third party suppliers for key materials and components needed to manufacture our products. We purchase key components needed to manufacture our products from third party suppliers. For example, we purchase wavelength selective switches (WSS), a key component in our ROADM products, and transmission optical sub-assemblies (TOSAs), a key component in our transceiver products, from third party suppliers. A number of our third-party suppliers have had capacity issues in the past, and we may face shortages and/or delays in the availability and delivery of key materials and components. Difficulties in obtaining materials and components may delay or limit our product shipments, which could result in lost orders and/or our increased lead-times for delivering products to our customers. We obtain some of our key materials and components from a single or limited number of suppliers and generally do not have long-term supply contracts with them. We could also experience discontinuation of key components, price increases and late deliveries from our suppliers. In addition, some of our suppliers are potential competitors, or may be acquired by our competitors, and may choose not to supply key components to us in the future at reasonable prices, or at any price. For example, our key suppliers that provide us with WSS components for our ROADM products may begin to compete with us by selling complete ROADM products, or they could be acquired by other companies that currently manufacture and sell ROADMs, in which case we would be at risk of losing our supply of WSS components necessary to make and sell our ROADM products. If we are unable to develop new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance, our revenues could decline, which would harm our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to develop, introduce and support cost-effective new products and technologies on a timely basis. If we fail to develop and deploy new cost-effective products and technologies or enhancements of existing products on a timely basis, or if we experience delays in the development, introduction or enhancement of our products and technologies, our products may no longer be competitive, our revenue will decline and we may have inventory that may become obsolete or in excess of future customer demand. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and engineering. Because the costs for research and development (R&D) of new products and technology are expensed as incurred, such costs will have a negative impact on our reported net operating results until such time (if ever) that we generate product revenue from such R&D. For example, we are currently expending substantial R&D resources towards developing 100G products to stay competitive and keep pace with changes in our industry. However, we do not yet have any meaningful 100G product revenue, and there can be no assurance that our 100G products (or other new products) will be commercially successful. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the telecommunications equipment market and any future downturn may reduce demand for our products and revenue. The markets in which we compete are tied to the aggregate capital expenditures by carriers as they build out and upgrade their network infrastructure. These markets are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, price erosion, evolving standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, these markets have experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, the maturation of product cycles - for both manufacturers' and their customers' products—and with declining general economic 19 Table of Contents conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Our historical results of operations have been subject to substantial fluctuations, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations. Any future downturn in the markets in which we compete could significantly reduce the demand for our products and therefore may result in a significant reduction in revenue. It may also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the markets utilizing our products. In addition, the communications networks industry from time to time has experienced and may again experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many carriers may slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment, which would have a negative impact on our business. Weakness in the global economy or a future downturn in the communications networks industry may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from year-to-year, harm our business, and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Further, as the communications industry consolidates and realigns to accommodate technological and other developments, our customers and service provider end users may consolidate or align with other entities in a manner that may delay orders and harm our business. Our customers' continued outsourcing might result in their utilizing large well-established contract manufacturers to provide final system assembly, rather than utilizing us for final system assembly. We may therefore be required to provide lower level components to these contract manufacturers rather than final system assembly to our current customers, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and lower gross margins and profits. Furthermore, these contract manufacturers may seek other sources of components, which could harm our operating results. We expect volatility in our stock price, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. We expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Within the last two fiscal years, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a intra-day high of $22.54 on August 9, 2013 to an intra-day low of $13.91 on May 7, 2014. These fluctuations may occur in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: - quarterly variations in our operating results; - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and/or our failure to meet estimates; - changes in market values of comparable companies; - announcements by our competitors or us of new products or of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; - any loss by us of a major customer; - economic fluctuations in the market for optical communications products, or in the telecommunications industry generally; - the outcome of, and costs associated with, any litigation to which we are or may become a party; - departures of key management or engineering personnel; and - future sales of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm our operating results. We depend upon a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our dependence on orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. Our top five customers, although not the same five customers for each period, together accounted for 51%, 50% and 45% of our revenues in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Coriant and HuaWei each accounted for greater than 10% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2014, June 30, 2013 and July 1, 2012. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. We may not be the sole source of supply to our customers, and they may choose to purchase products from other vendors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price reductions could cause our revenue to decline significantly. Our dependence on a small number of customers may increase if the fiber optic components and subsystems industry and our other target markets continue to consolidate. Our sales are mostly made pursuant to short-lead-time purchase orders, and therefore our revenue and financial results are difficult to predict. We are substantially dependent on orders we receive and fill on a short-term basis. We do not have contracts with our customers that provide any assurance of future sales, and sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, often with extremely short lead times. Accordingly, our customers: - may stop purchasing our products or defer their purchases on short notice; - are free to purchase products from our competitors; - are not required to make minimum purchases; and - may cancel orders that they place with us on short notice. As a result, we cannot rely on orders in backlog as a reliable and consistent source of future revenue. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner in response to further revenue shortfalls. This can result in significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our markets are highly competitive, some of our customers are also our competitors, and our other customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products rather than our products or develop internal capabilities to produce their own fiber optic modules. The market for fiber optic components, modules and subsystems is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors include Alliance Fiber Optics Products, Avago Technologies, Oclaro, DiCon Fiberoptics, Sumitomo Electric, Finisar, Furukawa, NEL Hitachi Cable, NeoPhotonics, Source Photonics, Santec Corporation, JDS Uniphase, Accelink, Photop Technologies/II-VI, O-Net and numerous optical component manufacturers in China. We also face indirect competition from public and private companies providing non-fiber optic networking products that address the same networking needs that our products address. Many of our current competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, those of our competitors that have large market capitalization or cash reserves are in a much better position to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our products. Any of these potential acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater brand name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we do. These companies can use their broader customer bases and product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. 21 Table of Contents In addition, existing and potential customers may also become competitors. These customers have the internal capabilities to integrate their operations by producing their own optical modules or by acquiring our competitors or the rights to produce competitive products or technologies, which may allow them to reduce their purchases or cease purchasing from us. We expect our competitors to introduce new and improved products with lower prices, and we will need to do the same to remain competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors with respect to new products. We believe that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins, additional write down of inventory and our loss of market share. Our cost advantage from having our manufacturing and most of our R&D in China may diminish over time due to increasing labor costs. The labor market in China, particularly in the manufacturing-heavy Southeast region of China where our manufacturing facilities are located, has become more challenging for employers, and many companies are facing higher costs due to increased wages. We have recently increased our wage rates at our Zhuhai facility by approximately 6% in fiscal 2014, more than 10% in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, due to government-mandated increases in minimum wage levels. We expect that we may be required to increase wages even more in the future due to market conditions and/or additional government mandates. If labor costs in China continue to increase, our gross margins and profit margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitive advantage against competitors with manufacturing in traditionally higher cost countries would be diminished. Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We are currently increasing our expenditures on research and development, with the goal of developing and introducing new products to serve our current market. The process of developing new products and a new business line entails considerable uncertainty. As such, we can make no assurances that any of the products we plan to develop will be commercially successful, and there is a substantial risk that our research and development expenditures will fail to generate any meaningful return of the investment of such resources. If our liability for U.S. and foreign taxes is greater than we have anticipated and reserved for, our operating results may suffer. We are subject to taxation in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions in which we do business, including China. We believe that we have adequately estimated and reserved for our income tax liability. However, our business operations, including our transfer pricing for transactions among our various business entities operating in different tax jurisdictions, may be audited at any time by the U.S., Chinese or other foreign tax authorities. In addition, we have estimated our U.S. tax liability assuming the benefit of substantial net operating loss carryforwards. As of June 29, 2014, we conducted an Internal Revenue Code Section 382 ("Sec. 382") analysis with respect to our net operating loss and credit carryforwards and determined that there was no limitation. It is possible that subsequent ownership changes may limit the utilization of these tax attributes. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as: - changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates; - changes in the tax laws of any of the countries in which we pay substantial taxes, including changes to tax rates or to transfer pricing standards, or more fundamental changes such as the various proposals that exist from time to time for U.S. international tax reform; - changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; - changes in U.S. general accepted accounting principles; - expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives (such as the preferential 15% tax rate available to high technology companies in China, which we were granted in January 2012 and which expires at the end of calendar 2014); and - the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. - A change in our effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact our future results from operations. Also, changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. 22 Table of Contents We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity securities of private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors as well as their ability to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. When the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. We may incur losses on the disposal of our non-marketable investments. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company's income or loss, such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges for equity and other investments. We may be involved in intellectual property disputes in the future, which could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the communications and fiber optic components and subsystems markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors. In addition, from time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, divert management's attention and resources and may cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition, intellectual property claims against us could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: - obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; - stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; - pay substantial monetary damages; or - redesign the products that use the technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer's equipment, which could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and substantial costs. Our products are deployed in large and complex optical networks and must be compatible with other system components. Our products can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in these networks for long periods of time. Our customers may discover errors, defects or incompatibilities in our products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. Our products may also have errors, defects or incompatibilities that are not found until after a system upgrade is installed. Errors, defects, incompatibilities or other problems with our products could result in: 23 Table of Contents - loss of customers; - loss of or delay in revenues; - loss of market share; - damage to our brand and reputation; - inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; - diversion of development resources; - increased service and warranty costs; - legal actions by our customers; and - increased insurance costs. If our customers do not approve our manufacturing processes and qualify our products, we will lose significant customer sales and opportunities. Customers generally will not purchase any of our products before they qualify them and approve our manufacturing processes and quality control system. If particular customers do not approve of our manufacturing processes, we will lose the sales opportunities with those customers. Our customers typically expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products and manufacturing process prior to placing an order. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from nine to twelve months and sometimes longer. Generally, customers consider a wide range of issues before purchasing our products, including interoperation with other components, product performance and reliability. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. In addition, our customers' product purchases are frequently subject to unplanned processing and other delays, particularly with respect to larger customers for which our products represent a very small percentage of their overall purchase activity. If sales forecasts to specific customers are not realized, our revenue and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Long sales cycles may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies, our operating results may be harmed. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business or technology, could cause diversion of management's time and other resources or disrupt our operations. Future acquisitions could result in: - additional operating expenses without additional revenues; - potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; - the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; - intangible asset write-offs; - other acquisition-related expenses; and - cannibalization of product lines leading to revenue attrition. Our acquisition of businesses or technologies will require significant commitment of resources. We may be required to pay for any acquisition with cash, but we cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: 24 Table of Contents - problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; - unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; - diversion of management's attention from our core business; - adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; - risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and - potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. If we fail to effectively manage our manufacturing capability, produce products that meet our customers' quality requirements and achieve acceptable production yields in China, we may not be able to deliver sufficient quantities of products that meet all of our customers' order requirements in a timely manner, which would harm our operating results. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our facilities in China. The quality of our products and our ability to ship products on a timely basis may suffer if we cannot effectively maintain the necessary expertise and resources to effectively manage our manufacturing activities in China. Because manufacturing our products involves complex and precise processes and the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Factors that affect our manufacturing yields include the quality of raw materials used to make our products, the quality of workmanship, the prior experience in manufacturing the specific product and our manufacturing processes. The inadvertent use by our suppliers in using defective materials could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers could also impact our yields. In some cases, existing manufacturing techniques, which involve substantial manual labor, may not allow us to meet our manufacturing yield goals cost-effectively so that we maintain acceptable gross margins while meeting the cost targets of our customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation in order to increase our gross margins and help achieve the targeted cost levels of our customers. We may not achieve manufacturing cost levels that will allow us to achieve acceptable gross margins or fully satisfy customer demands. Additionally, our competitors are automating their manufacturing processes. If we are unable to achieve higher levels of automation and our competitors are successful, it will harm our gross margins. Additional risks associated with managing our manufacturing processes and capability in China include: - our ability to procure the necessary raw materials and equipment on a timely basis; - a potential lack of availability of qualified management and manufacturing personnel; - our ability to maintain quality; - our ability to effectively manage headcount, particularly if we undertake to expand our manufacturing operations; and - our ability to quickly and efficiently implement an adequate set of financial controls to effectively track and control inventory levels and inventory mix and to accurately predict inventory requirements. Communications equipment suppliers typically require that their vendors commit in advance to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time. We may not be able to pursue many large orders from these suppliers if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities to enable us to commit to provide them with their specified quantities of products. If we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy a customer's anticipated needs, we likely will lose the order and the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a lengthy period of time. Furthermore, if we fail to fulfill orders to which we have committed, we will lose revenue opportunities and our customer relationships may be harmed. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional carrying costs and have excess and obsolete inventory or we could experience manufacturing delays, which could cause us to lose orders or customers. We currently use historical data, a backlog of orders and estimates of future requirements to determine our demand for components and materials. We must accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead time required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials vary significantly depending on factors such as the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. As a result, we generally maintain high levels of inventories that periodically cause us to have excess and obsolete inventory. However, if we were to underestimate our purchasing requirements, manufacturing could be interrupted, resulting in delays in shipments, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain our key employees and hire additional personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key engineering, finance, sales, marketing, manufacturing and support personnel. In addition, we depend substantially upon the continued services of key management personnel at our Chinese subsidiaries. In addition, we do not have "key person" life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Our loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base may prevent us from executing our growth strategy. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. We are exposed to currency rate fluctuations and exchange controls that could adversely impact our operating results. Significant portions of our operations are conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, particularly in Chinese Renminbi and the new Taiwan dollar. Our operating results are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, operating results and financial position. We will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses. Moreover, China's government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of currency out of China. Any shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain and remit sufficient foreign currency. Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to convert and remit our sales received in Renminbi into U.S. dollars. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries, such as China, where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our ability to succeed will be harmed. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of the attention of our technical and management personnel. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to liability. Laws could be enacted that increase the risks and costs to Oplink. Failure to comply with a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States, China and Taiwan could subject us to criminal, civil and administrative penalties. 26 Table of Contents Our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations that regulate the export of products and disclosure of technical information to foreign countries and citizens. In some instances, these laws and regulations may require licenses for the export of products to, and disclosure of technology in, some countries, including China and Taiwan, and disclosure of technology to foreign citizens. We have generally relied on self-classification in determining whether an export license is required and have determined that export licenses are not required. As we develop and commercialize new products and technologies, the list of products and technologies subject to U.S. export controls changes, or in the event that the relevant export authorities disagree with the outcome of our self-classification, we may be required to obtain export licenses or other approvals with respect to those products and technologies and may possibly be subject to penalties under applicable laws. We cannot predict whether these licenses and approvals will be required and, if so, whether they will be granted. The failure to obtain any required license or approval could harm our business. We ship inventory and other materials to and from our facilities in China and Taiwan and, as a result, are subject to various Chinese, Taiwanese and U.S. customs-related laws. Given the geographic distance and changing regulations and governmental standards, it can be difficult to monitor and enforce compliance with customs laws. Our customs practices in China have been reviewed by local governmental authorities in China and will be reviewed periodically in the future. The authorities may determine that additional duties must be paid or that certain of our practices must be changed. The U.S. Customs Service may also require us to revise product classifications from time to time with respect to various items imported into the United States. In such cases we may be required to pay any increase in customs duty to account for the difference in duty actually paid by Oplink and the duty owed under the amended product classification, and may also be subject to penalties under applicable laws. We employ a number of foreign nationals in our U.S. operations and, as a result, we are subject to various laws related to the status of those employees with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. We also send our U.S. employees to China and Taiwan from time to time and for varying durations of time to assist with our Chinese operations. Depending on the durations of such arrangements, we may be required to withhold and pay personal income taxes in respect of the affected U.S. employees directly to the Chinese and Taiwanese tax authorities, and the affected U.S. employees may be required to register with various Chinese and Taiwanese governmental authorities. If we fail to comply with the foregoing laws and regulations or any other applicable laws and regulations, we may incur liabilities. In addition, we are subject to laws relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous or regulated chemicals or materials used in our manufacturing processes. While we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, if we fail to store, use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. Disruption to commercial activities in the United States or in other countries, particularly in China and Taiwan, may adversely impact our results of operations, our ability to raise capital or our future growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside the United States and substantial portions of our operations are located in China and Taiwan. Our international operations expose us to a number of additional risks associated with international operations, including, without limitation: - disruptions to commercial activities or damage to our facilities as a result of natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods and typhoons), political unrest, war, terrorism, labor strikes, and work stoppages; - disruptions of telecommunications networks due to natural disasters; - difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in optical network technology; - unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical systems or networks; 27 Table of Contents - disruptions in the transportation of our products and other risks related to the infrastructure of foreign countries; - economic instability; - any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza and other epidemics or illnesses; and - power shortages at our manufacturing facilities in China, which may lead to production delays. To the extent that such disruptions interfere with our commercial activities, our results of operations could be harmed. Substantially all of Oplink's manufacturing operations are located in China and are subject to the laws and regulations of China. Our operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in the laws and regulations of China, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. China's central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, which would require additional expenditures. Our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed by changes in the political, economic or social conditions in China. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law and other arrangements may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent any change in control, which could negatively affect your investment. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions permit us to: - issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders; - provide for a classified board of directors; - eliminate the right of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; - eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and - impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, on September 13, 2012, our Board of Directors adopted a share purchase rights plan, which has certain additional anti-takeover effects. Specifically, the terms of the plan provide for a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 