ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders are at risk of losing some or all of the money invested in purchasing our common stock. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America applicable to a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The historical consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accountants, KPMG LLP, includes an explanatory paragraph related to our ability to continue as a going concern. The assessment of our ability to continue as a going concern was made by management considering, among other factors: (i) our current levels of expenditures, including subscriber acquisition costs, operating expense, including product development, and overhead, (ii) our ongoing working capital needs, (iii) the uncertainty concerning the outcome of any financing, (iv) our fiscal year net losses of $19.7 million and $29.5 million for the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, (v) our use of $11.2 million and $3.0 million of cash used for operating activities during the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, (vi) the outstanding balance of cash and cash equivalents of $6.3 million as of December 31, 2010, and (vii) our budgets and financial projections of future operations, including the likelihood of ac hieving operating profitability without the need for additional financing. For periods subsequent to December 31, 2010, we expect losses to continue if we maintain expenditures to develop the Kazaa service, acquire subscribers for the Kazaa digital music service, and are not able to reduce other operating expenses and overhead sufficiently to a level in line with our level of revenues. If we are unable to increase revenues sufficiently or decrease our expenditures to a sustainable level, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Based on current financial projections, we believe the continuation of our Company as a going concern is primarily dependent on our ability to, among other factors: (i) consummate a suitable financing, or obtain financing from the sale of our assets or lines of business, (ii) scale our Kazaa subscriber base to a level where the monthly revenue generated from our subscriber base exceeds subscriber acquisition costs, net of expenses required to operate Kazaa, (iii) continue to generate revenue from our legacy subscription products without billing or service disruption, (iv) eliminate or reduce operating and overhead expenditures to a level more in line with our revenue, (v) improve utilization of the Kazaa digital music service and improve LTVs of subscribers to that service (vi) acquire profitable subscribers to the Kazaa digital mus ic service at cost effective rates(vii) grow our search marketing agency revenue base through the addition of new customers or expansion of business with existing customers, and (viii) expand margins in our search marketing agency and on our affiliate platform. While we address these operating matters, we must continue to meet expected near-term obligations, including normal course operating cash requirements and costs associated with developing and operating the Kazaa digital music service, as well as funding overhead and the working capital needs of our other businesses. If we are not able to obtain sufficient funds through a financing, or if we experience adverse outcomes with respect to our operational forecasts, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. In the near term, we are focused on: (i) raising debt or equity capital to fund our immediate cash needs and to finance our longer term growth to further develop the Kazaa business and grow our subscriber base, and (ii) pursuing various means to minimize operating costs and increase cash. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to realize the cost reductions in our operations, or that we can obtain additional cash through asset sales or the issuance of debt or equity. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts we will be required to further reduce our operations, including further reductions of our employee base, or we may be required to cease certain or all of our operations in order to offset the lack of available funding. 10 We continue to evaluate the sale of certain of our assets and businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in finding suitable purchasers for the sale of such assets. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we may not be able to obtain attractive terms and conditions for such sales, including attractive pricing. In addition, divestitures of businesses involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, a decrease in revenues associated with the divested business, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. Furthermore, divestitures potentially involve significant post-closing separation activities, which could involve the expenditure of s ignificant financial and employee resources. An inability to consummate identified asset sales or manage the post-separation transition arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our purchase of the Kazaa assets does not close, the price of our common stock could decline and our future business and operations could be harmed. The Company's and Brilliant Digital’s obligations to complete the purchase and sale of the Kazaa assets is subject to conditions, many of which are beyond the control of the parties. If the transaction is not completed for any reason: · The price of our common stock may decline; · We will incur costs related to the transaction, such as financial advisory, legal, accounting, proxy solicitation and printing fees, even if the transaction is not completed; · We will not be able to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition which are a significant component of our growth strategy; · We may not be able to operate as effectively under the existing Marketing Services Agreement and Master Services Agreement, which agreements are to remain in place if the transaction does not close, All of which may harm our business and operations. We have experienced a significant reduction in revenue and have been using cash to fund operations. If we cannot halt this revenue decline and reduce expenditures we may have to cease operations. The Company has experienced a significant revenue decline and degradation in business prospects over the past two years, and as a result the Company has used a significant amount of cash to fund its operations. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents were $6.3 million as of December 31, 2010, which is a $10.6 million decline from the $16.9 million as of December 31, 2009. If we are unsuccessful at stabilizing or slowing the decline in our revenue, and our associated use of cash to fund operations, or if we cannot raise cash through financing alternatives, then we will need to significantly curtail or cease operations. The working capital requirements for companies in the digital music industry is significant The digital music industry is highly competitive and as a result of the industry’s characteristics, subjects market participants to significant working capital requirements, as is evidenced by the numerous companies in the industry that have experienced significant losses. If we are to attract and retain talented employees, acquire subscribers and enhance and improve the Kazaa digital music service, which we will need to do if we are to be successful, we will have significant capital requirements. There is no guarantee additional capital will be available on favorable terms or at all. We will require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us or available to us under adverse circumstances, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We will require additional capital to operate or expand our business. In addition, some of our current or future strategic initiatives, including continued growth of the Kazaa line of business, will require substantial additional capital resources before they begin to generate revenue. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, volatility in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt or equity financing. If we do not have funds available to enhance our business, maintain the competitiveness of our technology and pursue business opportunities, we may not be able to service our existing subscribers and customers, or acquire new subscribers or customers , which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financi al condition. We face risks in implementing our restructuring plan. In connection with our announcement to purchase the assets of the Kazaa digital music service, we are undertaking a restructuring of our existing operations. Although the reorganization and consolidation of activities are expected to yield cost savings as a result of the reduction in headcount, the elimination of duplicative activities and combining or eliminating networking and other overhead costs, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the forecasted savings. Our remaining business may also suffer as a result of the restructuring due to the loss of employees, who have been involuntarily terminated, or employees who leave voluntarily. We may also face defections from customers who are unsure of our viability and may also receive less favorable terms than we currently receive from our vendors, as a result of their perceptio n of the restructuring. There can be no assurance that the restructuring will be completed effectively, with limited negative impact on our business. 11 As part of our restructuring plan and in connection with the integration of activities with the Kazaa business, we will be migrating many of our technological assets. We face risks with such migrations, including disruptions in service. Also, the costs and time associated with any migration could be substantial, requiring the reengineering of computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure. We may also face interruptions in the services we provide across all of our business activities. In addition to service interruptions arising from third-party service providers, unanticipated problems affecting our proprietary internal computer and telecommunications systems have the potential to occur in future fiscal periods, and could cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and re lated gross margins, and the potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the Kazaa business may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The integration of Atrinsic and the business of Kazaa face challenges as a result of the differing geographical locations of the two businesses. In the event the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement close, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the Kazaa business and the assets into our operations. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Even if we are able to integrate the business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be ach ieved within a reasonable period of time. We face intense competition in the sale of our subscription services and transactional and marketing services. In our subscription service business, which includes the Kazaa music service, and our marketing services business, we compete primarily on the basis of marketing acquisition cost, brand awareness, consumer penetration and carrier and distribution depth and breadth. We face numerous competitors, many of whom are much larger than us, who have greater financial and operating resources than we do and who have been operating in our target markets longer than we have. In the future, likely competitors may include other major media companies, traditional video game publishers, telephone carriers, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play direct response marketers publishing content and media, and Internet affiliate and network companies. If we are not as successful as our competitors in executing on our strategy in targeting new markets and increasing customer penetration in existing markets our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any and all of which could materially harm our business prospects, and potentially have a negative impact on our share price. We may continue to be impacted by the effects of the current weakness of the United States economy. Our performance is subject to United States economic conditions and its impact on levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending recently has deteriorated significantly as a result of the current economic situation in the United States and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. Purchases of our subscription based services as well as our transactional and marketing services have declined in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of spending for our products and services, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Du ring periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers or make sales to new customers on a profitable basis. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy, including the current downturn in the United States which has impacted our business, and which may continue to affect our results of operations. Our business relies on wireless and landline carriers and aggregators to facilitate billing and collections in connection with our subscription products sold and services rendered. The loss of, or a material change in, any of these relationships could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of our products and services directly to consumers which are billed through aggregators and telephone carriers. We expect that we will continue to bill a significant portion of our revenues through a limited number of aggregators for the foreseeable future, although these aggregators may vary from period to period. In a risk diversification and cost saving effort, we have established a direct billing relationship with a carrier that mitigates a portion of our revenue generation risk as it relates to aggregator dependence; conversely this risk is replaced with internal performance risk regarding our ability to successfully process billable messages directly with the carrier. Moreover, in an effort to further mitigate such operational risk, we obtained a 36% eq uity stake in a landline telephone aggregator, TBR, to give us more visibility in the billing and collection process associated with subscription services billed to customers of local exchange carriers. 12 Our aggregator agreements are not exclusive and generally have a limited term of less than three years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration in the majority of the agreements. These agreements set out the terms of our relationships with the aggregator and carriers, and provide that either party to the contract can terminate such agreement prior to its expiration, and in some instances, terminate without cause. Many other factors exist that are outside of our control and could impair our carrier relationships, including: · a carrier’s decision to suspend delivery of our products and services to its customer base; · a carrier’s decision to offer its own competing subscription applications, products and services; · a carrier’s decision to offer similar subscription applications, products and services to its subscribers for price points less than our offered price points, or for free; · a network encountering technical problems that disrupt the delivery of, or billing for, our applications; · the potential for concentrations of credit risk embedded in the amounts receivable from the aggregator should any one, or group of aggregators encounter financial difficulties, directly or indirectly, as a result of the current period of slower economic growth affecting the United States; or · a carrier’s decision to increase the fees it charges to market and distribute our applications, thereby increasing its own revenue and decreasing our share of revenue. If one or more carriers decide to suspend the offering of our subscription services, we may be unable to replace such revenue source with an acceptable alternative, within an acceptable time frame. This could cause us to lose the capability to derive revenue from those subscribers, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on third-party Internet and telecommunications providers, over whom we have no control, for the conduct of our subscription business and transactional and marketing business. Interruptions in or the discontinuance of the services provided by one of the providers could have an adverse effect on revenue; and securing alternate sources of these services could significantly increase expenses and cause significant interruption to both our transactional and marketing and subscription businesses. We depend heavily on several third-party providers of Internet and related telecommunication services, including hosting and co-location facilities, in conducting our business. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions in service, at the current cost or at all. The costs and time associated with any transition to a new service provider would be substantial, requiring the reengineering of computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider to allow for a rapid replacement and return to normal network operations. In addition, failure of the Internet and related telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity in the time frame required by us could cause interruptions in the services we provide across all of our business activities. In addition to service interruptions arising from third-party service providers, unanticipated problems affecting our proprietary internal computer and telecommunications systems have the potential to occur in future fiscal periods, and could cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and related gross margins, and the potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on partners and third-parties for our content and for the delivery of services underlying our subscriptions. We depend heavily on partners and third parties to provide us with licensed content including for the Kazaa music service. We are reliant on such companies to maintain licenses with content providers, including music labels, so that we can deliver services that we are contractually obligated to deliver to our customers. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruption, or maintain licenses with the owners of the delivered content. In addition to licensed content, we are also reliant on partners and third parties to provide services and to perform other activities which allow us to bill our subscribers. The costs associated with any transition to a new service or content provider would be substantial, even if a similar partner is available. Failure of our partners or other third parties to provide content or deliver services has the potential to cause interruptions in the delivery of services, causing a loss of revenue and related gross margins, and the potential loss of customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not fully recoup the expenses and other costs we have expended with respect to the Kazaa music service. On March 26, 2010, we entered into three-year Marketing Services Agreement and Master Services Agreement with Brilliant Digital, effective July 1, 2009, relating to the operation and marketing of the Kazaa digital music service. Under the agreements, we are responsible for marketing, promotional, and advertising services. In exchange for these marketing services, the Company is entitled to full recoupment for all pre-approved costs and expenses incurred in connection with the provision of the services plus all other agreed budgeted amounts. On October 13, 2010, Atrinsic entered into amendments to its existing Marketing Services Agreement and Master Services Agreement with Brilliant Digital. The amendments extend the term of each of the Marketing Services Agreement and Master Services Agreement from three y ears to thirty years, provide Atrinsic with an exclusive license to the Kazaa trademark in connection with Atrinsic’s services under the agreements, and modify the Kazaa digital music service profit share payable to Atrinsic under the agreements from 50% to 80%. In addition, the amendments remove Brilliant Digital’s obligation to repay up to $2.5 million of advances and expenditures which are not otherwise recovered from Kazaa generated revenues and remove the cap on expenditures that Atrinsic is required to advance in relation to the operation of the Kazaa business. 13 As of December 31, 2010, the Company has received the $2.5 million in repayments from Brilliant Digital and we are dependent on the future net cash flow of the Kazaa music service to fully recoup the approximately $11.8 million of advances and expenditures we have made, net of cash received or reimbursed, as of December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that the future net cash flows from the Kazaa music service will be sufficient to allow us to fully recoup our expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If advertising on the internet loses its appeal, our revenue could decline. Companies doing business on the Internet must compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio, cable and print, for a share of advertisers' total marketing budgets. Potential customers may be reluctant to devote a significant portion of their marketing budget to Internet advertising or digital marketing if they perceive the Internet to be trending towards a limited or ineffective marketing medium. Any shift in marketing budgets away from Internet advertising spending or digital marketing solutions, could directly, materially and adversely affect our transactional and marketing business, as well as our subscription business, with both having a materially negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. All of our revenue is generated, directly or indirectly, through the Internet in part by delivering advertisements that generate leads, impressions, click-throughs, and other actions to our advertiser customers' websites as well as confirmation and management of mobile services. This business model may not continue to be effective in the future for various reasons, including the following: · click and conversion rates may decline as the number of advertisements and ad formats on the Web increases, making it less likely that a user will click on our advertisement; · the installation of "filter" software programs by web users which prevent advertisements from appearing on their computer screens or in their email boxes may reduce click-throughs; · companies may be reluctant or slow to adopt online advertising that replaces, limits or competes with their existing direct marketing efforts; · companies may prefer other forms of Internet advertising we do not offer, including certain forms of search engine placements; · companies may reject or discontinue the use of certain forms of online promotions that may conflict with their brand objectives; · companies may not utilize online advertising due to concerns of "click-fraud", particularly related to search engine placements; · regulatory actions may negatively impact certain business practices that we currently rely on to generate a portion of our revenue and profitability; and · perceived lead quality. If the number of companies who purchase online advertising from us does not grow, we will experience difficulty in attracting publishers, and our revenue will decline. If we are unable to successfully keep pace with the rapid technological changes that may occur in the wireless communication, internet and e-commerce arenas, we could lose customers or advertising inventory and our revenue and results of operations could decline. To remain competitive, we must continually monitor, enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services, offered both in our subscription and transactional and marketing activities. Wireless network and mobile phone technologies, the Internet and the online commerce industry in general are characterized by rapid innovation and technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions requiring new technologies to facilitate commercial delivery, as well as the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render existing technologies, systems, business methods and/or our products and services obsolete or unmarketable in future fiscal periods. Our success in our business activities will depend, in part, on our ability to license or internally develop leading technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective consumers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely-cost-effective basis. Website and other proprietary technology development entails significant technical and business risks, including the significant cost and time to complete development, the successful implementation of the application once developed, and time period for which the application will be useful prior to obsolescence. There can be no assurance that we will use internally developed or acquired new technologies effectively or adapt existing websites and operational systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adopt and implement new technologies on a timely basis in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition a nd results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 We could be subject to legal claims, government enforcement actions, and be held accountable for our or our customers' failure to comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations or policies, all of which could materially harm our business. As a direct-to-consumer marketing company, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers that govern certain of aspects of our business. For instance, recent growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about Internet users has led to increased federal, state and foreign scrutiny and legislative and regulatory activity concerning data collection and use practices. Any failure by us to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and the requirements of regulatory authorities may result in, among other things, indemnification liability to our customers and the advertising agencies we work with, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and civil and criminal lia bility. We are subject to continued listing requirements on the NASDAQ Global Market and if we are unable to meet such listing requirements, we could face delisting. We are subject to continued listing requirements on the NASDAQ Global Market, which includes such criteria as a $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and minimum stockholders’ equity value of $10 million, as set forth in Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). As of December 31, 2010, the value of our stockholders’ equity is $8.2 million. The value of our stockholders’ equity can be increased through equity financing or through additions to retained earnings (or reductions in accumulated deficit). We are actively seeking to engage in an equity financing, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. If we are not successful in raising equity capital, or even if we are successful, if we continue to incur net losses (which will negatively impact the value of our stockholders’ equity), we are not likely to be able to meet or maintain the minimum stockholders’ equity value requirement to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We do not intend to pay dividends on our equity securities. It is our current and long-term intention that we will use all cash flows to fund operations and maintain excess cash requirements for the possibility of potential future acquisitions. Future dividend declarations, if any, will result from our reversal of our current intentions, and would depend on our performance, the level of our then current and retained earnings and other pertinent factors relating to our financial position. Prior dividend declarations should not be considered as an indication for the potential for any future dividend declarations. System failures could significantly disrupt our operations, which could cause us to lose customers or content. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to customers, including failures affecting our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately and to process visitors' responses to advertisements, and, validate mobile subscriptions, would reduce significantly the attractiveness of our solutions to advertisers and Web publishers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could also be materially and adversely affected by any systems damage or failure that impacts data integrity or interrupts or delays our operations. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious or accidental human acts, and natural disasters. Through the end of 2010, we operated a data center in Canada (which we have begun the process of closing down and transferring data to servers owned by third parties in 2011) and have a co-location agreement with a service provider to support our operations. Therefore, any of the above factors affecting any of these areas could substantially harm our business. Moreover, despite network security measures, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems in part because we cannot control the maintenance and operation of our third-party data centers. Despite the precautions taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in the delivery of our solutions in the future and our ability to provide a record of past transactions. Our data centers and systems incorporate varying degrees of redundancy. All data centers and systems may not automatically switch over to their redundant counterpart. Our ins urance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. 15 We have been named as a defendant in litigation, either directly, or indirectly, with the outcome of such litigation being unpredictable; a materially adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As described under the heading “Commitments and Contingencies,” or "Legal Proceedings" in our periodic reports filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, from time to time we are named as a defendant in litigation matters. The defense of these claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we have been a named party, whether directly or indirectly, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. A materially adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may incur liabilities to tax authorities in excess of amounts that have been accrued which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As more fully described in Note 10, “Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements contained in annual report on Form 10-K, we have recorded significant income tax receivables. In November 2009 Congress passed the Worker Homeownership & Business Assistance Act of 2009 which allows businesses to carryback operating losses for up to 5 years. As a result of this Act we were able to carryback some of our 2009 taxable loss, resulting in a refund of $2.7 million, which was received in 2010. In the event that we are not able to successfully defend our tax positions, we may incur significant additional income tax liabilities and related interest and penalties which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If our efforts to attract prospective subscribers and to retain existing subscribers pertaining to our Kazaa business are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected. Our ability to grow our business and generate subscriber revenue depends on retaining and expanding our subscriber base. We must convince prospective listeners of the benefits of our service and existing listeners of the continuing value of our service. Our ability to increase the number of our subscribers depends on effectively addressing a number of challenges and we may fail to do so. Some of these challenges include: • Providing subscribers with a consistent high quality, user-friendly and personalized experience; • continuing to build our catalog of music content that our listeners enjoy; and • continuing to innovate and keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors. We depend upon third-party licenses for musical works and a change to or loss of these licenses could increase our operating costs or adversely affect our ability to retain and expand our listener base, and therefore could adversely affect our business. To secure the rights to stream musical works embodied in sound recordings over the internet, Brilliant Digital maintains licenses from or for the benefit of copyright owners and pays royalties to copyright owners or their agents. We reimburse Brilliant Digital for these royalty payments. These royalty payments represent a substantial cost in operating the Kazaa business. Those who own copyrights in musical works are vigilant in protecting their rights and seek royalties that are very high in relation to the revenue that can be generated from the public performance of such works. There is no guarantee that the licenses available to Brilliant Digital now will continue to be available in the future or that such licenses will be available at the royalty rates associated with the current licenses. If we or Brilliant Digi tal are unable to secure and maintain rights to stream musical works or if we cannot do so on terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream music content to our listeners, and consequently our ability to attract subscribers, will be adversely impacted. In order to stream musical works embodied in sound recordings over the internet, we must obtain public performance licenses and pay license fees to three performing rights organizations: Broadcast Music, Inc., or BMI, SESAC, Inc., or SESAC, and the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, or ASCAP. These organizations represent the rights of songwriters and music publishers, negotiate with copyright users such as Brilliant Digital, collect royalties and distribute those royalties to the copyright owners they represent, namely songwriters and music publishers. Performing rights organizations have the right to audit our playlists and royalty payments, and any such audit could result in disputes over whether we have paid the proper royalties. If such a dispute were to occur, we could be required to pay additional royalties and the amounts involved could be material. 16 If our security systems are breached, we may face civil liability and public perception of our security measures could be diminished, either of which would negatively affect our ability to attract listeners and advertisers. Techniques used to gain unauthorized access are constantly evolving, and we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to data pertaining to our listeners, including credit card information and other personally identifiable information. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs of our systems or a vendor’s systems, we may face civil liability and public perception of our security measures could be diminished, either of which would negatively affect our ability to attract subscribers. We also would be required to expend significant resources to mitigate the breach of security and to address related matters. We cannot control the actions of third parties who may have access to the subscriber data we collect. If such third parties’ use of subscriber data is not in compliance with the terms of our privacy policies, or if they fail to prevent unauthorized access to, or use of or disclosure of, subscriber information, we could be hindered or prevented in our efforts with respect to future growth opportunities. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to maintain the security of data relating to our listeners and employees, to comply with our posted privacy policy, laws and regulations, rules of self-regulatory organizations, industry standards, and contractual provisions to which we may be bound, could result in the loss of confidence in us, or result in actions against us by governmental entities or others, all of which could result in litigation and financial losses, and could potentially cause us to lose listeners, advertisers, revenue, and employees. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept. We accept payments through credit card transactions. For credit card payments, we pay processing and other fees, which may increase over time. An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our products, or suffer an increase in our operating expenses, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we or any of our processing vendors have problems with our billing software, or the billing software malfunctions, it could have an adverse effect on our subscriber satisfaction and could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it more difficult for us to comply. We must remain fully compliant with the Payment Card Industry, or PCI, Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, a security standard with which companies that collect, store, or transmit certain data regarding credit, credit card holders, and credit card transactions are required to comply. Our failure to comply fully with PCI DSS may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors and merchant banks. Such failure to comply fully also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages, and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that, even if PCI DSS compliance is achieved, we will maintain PCI DSS compliance or that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders and credit and debit card transactions. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures and significantly higher credit card-related costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, credit card companies may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in such rates could adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our service to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. 17 We currently are operating our business with vacancies in several key executive positions including our Chief Executive Officer. In order to effectively operate our business and effect the necessary growth to meet our financial needs, the company is required to continuously set key strategic objectives and develop strategies to meet these objectives. This function requires competent leadership within our organization. Due to recent turnover of key executives, we are currently operating with several vacancies in executive positions, including our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers to fill these rolls, our business, operating results and growth can be adversely affected. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 18 