Item 1A. Risk Factors. The occurrence of any of the following risks could significantly harm our business, results of operations or financial condition or have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock or convertible senior notes. In that case, you may lose all or part of your investment. We have experienced operating and net losses in recent years, and we expect to incur future losses. We last reported an annual operating profit in fiscal 1999. For each of the last three years, we reported the following operating losses: • $72.0 million for 2006; • $108.5 million for 2005; and • $25.0 million for 2004. We believe that our losses have been attributable primarily to: • releasing titles that failed to gain popularity and generate expected sales; • increasing costs of developing new games for current and next-generation platforms; • a tendency for retailers to stock only video games for which consumer demand is expected to be strongest; and • weakness in the home video game industry during the home console transition periods. We may not become profitable again despite our efforts. 15 If our new products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and to develop a continuous stream of new games. Our success depends on generating revenues from new products. The market for video game products is subject to continually changing consumer preferences and the frequent introduction of new products. As a result, video game products typically have short market lives spanning only three to 12 months. Our new products may not achieve and sustain market acceptance sufficient to generate revenues to cover our costs and allow us to become profitable. Our typical cost to develop a new game for the current generation of platforms has ranged from $4 million to $16 million. In addition, we estimate that the cost will range between $8 million and $28 million to develop next-generation platform games. If our new products, and in particular, our frontline titles, fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient revenues to develop a continuous stream of new games, which we believe is essential to covering costs and achieving future profitability. In 2006, we released 10 frontline titles for home consoles and the PC, which accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues for that year. Product development schedules are long and frequently unpredictable, and we may experience delays in introducing new products, which may adversely affect our revenues. The development cycle for our products is long, typically ranging from 12 to 36 months. We expect the development cycle for next-generation platforms to range from 24 to 36 months. In addition, the creative process inherent in video game development makes the length of the development cycle difficult to predict, especially in connection with products for a new hardware platform involving new technologies, learning and development tools. As a result, we have from time to time in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in product introductions. If an unanticipated delay affects the release of a video game, we may not achieve anticipated revenues for that game, for example, if the game is delayed until after an important selling season or after market interest in the subject matter of the game has begun to decline. A delay in introducing a new video game could also require us to spend more development resources to complete the game, which would increase our costs and lower our margins, and could affect the development schedule for future products. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and if we do not adapt to, and appropriately allocate our new resources among, emerging technologies, our revenues would be negatively affected. Technology changes rapidly in the interactive entertainment industry. We must continually anticipate and adapt our products to emerging technologies. When we choose to incorporate a new technology into a product or to develop a product for a new platform, operating system or media format, we often are required to make a substantial investment one to two years prior to the introduction of the product. If we invest in the development of video games incorporating a new technology or for a new platform that does not achieve significant commercial success, our revenues from those products likely will be lower than we anticipated and may not cover our development costs. If, on the other hand, we elect not to pursue the development of products incorporating a new technology or for new platforms that achieve significant commercial success, our revenues would also be adversely affected, and it may take significant time and resources to shift product development resources to that technology or platform. Any such failure to adapt to, and appropriately allocate resources among, emerging technologies would harm our competitive position, reduce our market share and significantly increase the time we take to bring popular products to market. If consumers discontinue purchasing our products for current-generation home consoles or the prices for our current-generation products further decrease as a result of the current home console transition period, our revenues and margins would be adversely affected. Most of our revenues are generated from the sale of video game software for home consoles. Microsoft launched the first next-generation home console platform, Xbox 360, in November 2005 in the U.S. and December 2005 in Europe. Nintendo released its next-generation home console platform, the Wii, in November 2006 in the U.S. and then in Europe and Japan in December 2006. Finally, Sony released its next-generation home console platform, the PS3, in November 2006 in both the U.S. and Japan. Sony is expected to release the PS3 in Europe in March 2007. We have only recently begun to release video games for the next-generation home consoles. Consumers may discontinue purchasing video games for use on current-generation home consoles, and video game prices for the current-generation home consoles may further decrease as the next-generation home consoles 16 become more established in the marketplace. This combination of reduced game sales and lower prices contributed to our net losses in 2001 and 2002, when each of Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony announced new hardware platforms. We expect a similar market situation to occur until next-generation home consoles in the marketplace supplant current-generation home consoles in terms of software sales. If we are unable to introduce games that are less susceptible to these market conditions, or we are unable to timely meet consumers’ demand for next-generation products, our revenues and margins would be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making our results difficult to predict. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant quarterly fluctuations in net revenues and other operating results due to a variety of factors, including: • variations in the level and duration of market acceptance of our products; • delays and timing of product development and introductions; • fluctuations in our mix of products with varying profit margins; • dependence on a relatively limited number of products in any quarter to produce revenues; • introduction and market penetration of game platforms; • the amount of royalties payable by us for the content contained in our video games; • development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of our products; • peak demand during the year-end retail holiday selling season, which typically results in higher revenues in our fourth quarter; • changes in our pricing practices and those of our competitors; • the accuracy of the forecasts of consumer demand made by retailers and by us; and • the timing of orders from major customers, order cancellations and delays in shipment. These factors combine to make it difficult to predict our results of operations for any particular quarter. We base our purchasing levels and marketing expenses, in part, on our expectations of future sales. As a result, operating results in any particular quarter may be adversely affected by a decline in net revenues or a failure to meet our sales expectations in that quarter. Restrictive debt covenants in our credit facility and the indenture for our 7.125% convertible senior notes issued in May 2006 limit our operating flexibility, and all amounts outstanding under our credit facility, including our term loan, and our convertible senior notes may become immediately payable if we default under the facility or the indenture. Our credit facility with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. and the indenture for our $75 million 7.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the “7.125% Notes”) limit our ability to finance operations, service debt or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Specifically, our credit facility or the 7.125% Notes indenture restrict our ability to, among other things: • make payments, including dividends or other distributions, on our capital stock, except in shares of common stock; • incur additional indebtedness; • sell, lease, license or dispose of any of our assets; • make loans or investments; • acquire companies or businesses; • cause or permit a change of control; 17 • repurchase or redeem any shares of our capital stock; • issue or sell securities of our subsidiaries; and • make capital expenditures. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain minimum levels of cash and borrowing availability under the revolving line of credit and to deliver periodic financial reports and projections satisfactory to the lender. Our failure to comply with the obligations under our credit facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of the indebtedness under the credit facility, the 7.125% Notes and our $75 million 6.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the “6.0% Notes,” together with the 7.125% Notes, the “Notes”). Our failure to comply with our obligations under the indentures for the Notes may also result in an event of default under our credit facility that could result in acceleration of the indebtedness under our credit facility. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay any accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Increased leverage may harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our total consolidated debt and capital lease obligation as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $159.4 million, including the portion of our credit facility and capital lease obligation that we have classified as short-term, and represents approximately 75% of our total capitalization as of that date. Our consolidated debt and capital lease obligation above includes the Notes at their stated amount of $150 million and has not been reduced for the $7,990,000 discount recorded on the 7.125% Notes. This amount also includes the $1,281,000 letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006. The indenture for the 6.0% Notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, and under specified circumstances under the indenture for the 7.125% Notes, we may incur additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our debt and capital lease obligations; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to interest and principal payments on our debt and capital lease, thereby reducing our ability to fund operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. The 6.0% Notes include a conversion rate adjustment provision that, if triggered, could result in recording a maximum discount of $46.1 million that would be recognized as interest expense over the period from April 30, 2007, or in some cases September 30, 2007, through April 30, 2009, the date at which the holders may first require us to redeem the 6.0% Notes. This conversion rate adjustment provision, if triggered, may harm our results of operations and financial condition. See further discussion of the 6.0% Notes’ conversion rate adjustment provision and the circumstances under which the conversion rate adjustment may be triggered at Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to our success in obtaining necessary approvals and commercializing our product candidates, general economic conditions, and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot give assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other needs. If we are not able to generate 18 sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness, we may be required, among other things, to: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the convertible senior notes; • sell assets; and/or • reduce or delay planned expenditures on research and development and/or commercialization activities. Any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. In addition, we cannot give assurances that any of the above actions would provide sufficient funds to enable us to service our debt. If in the future we need to seek additional capital due to continuing operating losses or otherwise, we may incur additional expenses in the form of periodic interest or other debt service payments, or our stockholders may suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. If we continue to generate operating losses, our working capital and cash resources may not be adequate to allow us to implement our business strategies. As a result, we may need to seek capital in the future, including through the issuance of debt or equity securities, or through other financings. If we borrow additional funds, we likely will be obligated to make additional periodic dividend, interest or other debt service payments and may be subject to additional restrictive covenants. If we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our stockholders would suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. Additionally, we are not certain that we would be able to raise additional capital in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our market is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. It is characterized by the continuous introduction of new titles and the development of new technologies. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. The principal factors of competition in our industry are: • the ability to select and develop popular titles; • the ability to identify and obtain rights to commercially marketable intellectual properties; and • the ability to adapt products for use with new technologies. Successful competition in our market is also based on price, access to retail shelf space, product quality, product enhancements, brand recognition, marketing support and access to distribution channels. We compete with Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, who publish software for their respective systems. We also compete with numerous companies licensed by the platform manufacturers to develop or publish software products for use with their respective systems. These competitors include Activision, Atari, Capcom, Electronic Arts, Konami, Namco, SCi Entertainment, Sega, Take-Two Interactive Software, THQ, Ubisoft Entertainment and Vivendi Universal Games, among others. We face additional competition from the entry of new companies into our market, including large diversified entertainment companies. Our competitors with greater resources are able to spend more time and money on concept and focus testing, game development, product testing and marketing. We believe that we have comparable access to distribution channels in North America, however, in Europe and Asia the distribution networks are segmented, the barriers to entry are high and some of our competitors have better access to these markets. There is also intense competition for shelf space among video game developers and publishers, many of whom have greater brand name recognition, significantly more titles and greater leverage with retailers and distributors than we do. In addition, regardless of our 19 competitors’ financial resources or size, our success depends on our ability to successfully execute our competitive strategies. The number of new video game releases for PCs in a given year is much higher than the number of new video game releases for home consoles and handheld platforms. The barriers to entry in the PC market are lower because there are no publishing agreements with or royalties to be paid to the hardware manufacturers. We believe that large diversified entertainment, cable and telecommunications companies, in addition to large software companies, are increasing their focus on the interactive entertainment software market, which will likely result in consolidation and greater competition. We also compete with providers of alternative forms of entertainment, such as providers of non-interactive entertainment, including movies, television and music, and sporting goods providers. If the relative popularity of video games were to decline, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition likely would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose sales, market share, opportunities to license marketable intellectual property and access to next-generation platform technology. We also could experience difficulty hiring and retaining qualified software developers and other employees. Any of these consequences would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If product returns and price adjustments exceed our allowances, we will incur additional charges, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We often provide markdowns or other credits on varying terms to retailers and distributors holding slow-moving inventory of our video games. We also often grant discounts to, and sometimes accept product returns from, these customers. At the time of product shipment, we establish allowances for the anticipated effect of our price protection, return and discount practices. We establish allowances for a particular game based on a number of factors, including our estimates of the rate of retail sales and the potential for future returns and markdowns based on historical return rates and retailer inventories of our products. If product returns, markdowns and credits exceed our allowances, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If game platform manufacturers refuse to license their platforms to us or do not manufacture our games on a timely basis or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. We sell our products for use on proprietary game platforms manufactured by other companies, including Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony. These companies can significantly affect our business because: • we may only publish our games for play on their game platforms if we receive a platform license from them, which is renewable at their discretion; • prices for platform licenses may be economically prohibitive; • we must obtain their prior review and approval to publish games on their platforms; • if the popularity of a game platform declines or, if the manufacturer stops manufacturing a platform, does not meet the demand for a platform or delays the introduction of a platform in a region important to us, the games that we have published and that we are developing for that platform would likely produce lower sales than we anticipate; • these manufacturers control the manufacture of, or approval to manufacture, and manufacturing costs of our game discs and cartridges; and • these manufacturers have the exclusive right to (1) protect the intellectual property rights to their respective hardware platforms and technology and (2) discourage others from producing unauthorized software for their platforms that compete with our games. In addition, the interactive entertainment software products that we develop for platforms offered by Microsoft, Nintendo or Sony generally are manufactured exclusively by that platform manufacturer or its approved replicator. These manufacturers generally have approval and other rights that provide them with substantial 20 influence over our costs and the release schedule of our products. Each of these manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platform. A manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors, especially if their products compete with our products. Any unanticipated delays in the release of our products or increase in our development, manufacturing, marketing or distribution costs as a result of actions by these manufacturers would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Approximately half of our total net revenues are attributable to our five largest customers. Wal-Mart and GameStop were our two largest customers in 2006. Wal-Mart accounted for 16.7% of our total net revenues for 2006 while GameStop accounted for 14.6% of our total net revenues for 2006. GameStop (including EB Games which merged with GameStop in October 2005) and Wal-Mart were our two largest customers in 2005. GameStop accounted for 18.5% of our total net revenues for 2005 while Wal-Mart accounted for 13.8% of our total net revenues for 2005. In 2006, 49.3% of our total net revenues was derived from our five largest customers and 64.4% was attributable to our ten largest customers. In 2005, 49.3% of our total net revenues were derived from our five largest customers and 62.3% were attributable to our ten largest customers. We have no agreements with any of our customers that guarantee future purchases. As a result, any of our customers may reduce or terminate purchases from us at any time. A substantial reduction or termination of purchases by one or more of our largest customers could substantially reduce our revenues. A business failure by any of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to collect receivables. We typically make sales on credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer and other factors. Normally we do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. Additionally, we do not factor any of our receivables. While we attempt to monitor carefully the creditworthiness of our customers, we bear the risk of their inability to pay us as well as any delay in payment. Any financial difficulties or business failure experienced by one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on both our ability to collect receivables and results of operations. Rating systems for interactive entertainment software, potential legislation and vendor or consumer opposition could inhibit sales of our products. Trade organizations within the video game industry have established rules regarding rating systems and the labeling of video game products to indicate to consumers the amount and nature of violence, mature language, sexually explicit material and other content that some consumers might find objectionable. Some countries have also established rating systems as prerequisites for sales of interactive entertainment software in those countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of these rating systems, which could delay the release of those products in those countries. We label our North American products with these ratings: “E” (age 6 and older), “E10+” (age 10 and older), “T” (age 13 and over) and “M” (age 17 and over). Many of our new titles are designed for an “M”, or mature, rating, and one of our key strategies is to focus on games with mature content. The development of “M” rated video games for consumers age 17 and older is one of our historic strengths. The majority of video game players on current consoles are over 18 years of age and approximately 15% of all video games sold are “M” rated titles. Proposals have been made for legislation to prohibit the sale of some “M” rated video games to under-17 audiences and consumer groups have participated in public demonstrations and media campaigns to restrict sales. In addition, retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing mature content, which may limit the potential market for our “M” rated products and harm our business and results of operations. If any groups (including foreign, national and local political and regulatory bodies) were to target our “M” rated titles, we might be required to significantly change, delay or discontinue a particular title, which in the case of our best-selling titles could seriously harm our business. Although we expect mature games to continue to be one of the fastest growing segments in the industry, it could seriously harm our business if the mature games segment declines significantly or if our ability to sell mature rated games to the 17 and over audience is restricted. 21 Lawsuits alleging damages as a result of our video games may require significant expenditures, divert the attention of management and generate negative publicity, and thereby have an adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time we have been the target of lawsuits seeking damages for injuries, including wrongful death, allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of our video games. Any lawsuit may require significant expenditures, divert the attention of our management and generate negative publicity about us or our products, which could negatively influence the buying decisions of consumers resulting in lost sales, boycotts or other similar efforts by retailers or end users. Any of these consequences could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products, and any increase in the amounts we have to pay to have our products manufactured or any delay or interruption in production would negatively affect both our ability to make timely product introductions and our results of operations. Our products are manufactured by third parties who set the manufacturing prices for our products. Therefore, we depend on these manufacturers, including platform manufacturers, to fill our orders on a timely basis and to manufacture our products at an acceptable cost. Increases in our manufacturing costs would adversely affect our margins and therefore our results of operations. In addition, if we experience manufacturing delays or interruptions, we would not achieve anticipated revenues. We have limited control over the personnel, scheduling and use of resources by third parties that develop certain of our game titles, and our revenues may be adversely affected by delays caused by these developers. Approximately half of our games currently under development are being developed by third parties. The number of titles developed for us by third parties varies from quarter to quarter. We have less control over a game developed by a third party because we cannot control the developer’s personnel, schedule or resources. In addition, any of our third-party developers could experience a business failure, be acquired by one of our competitors or experience some other disruption. Any of these factors could cause a game not to meet our quality standards or expectations, or not to be completed on time or at all. If this happens with a game under development, we could lose anticipated revenues from the game or our entire investment in the game. If we are not able to maintain or acquire licenses for intellectual property necessary to the success of some of our games, or if that intellectual property does not achieve market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely affected. Some of our games are based on intellectual properties owned by third parties, such as the National Basketball Association or television and film production studios. Our future success may depend on our ability to maintain existing licenses and to acquire additional licenses for popular intellectual properties. There is intense competition for these licenses, and competitors may obtain exclusive licenses to market games using these or other desirable brands. We may not be successful in maintaining or acquiring intellectual property rights with significant commercial value on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to produce games that achieve market acceptance. Because some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are, have a higher degree of brand recognition and have developed more popular games, they may be more successful than we are in licensing the most desirable content. Our intellectual property licenses generally require that we submit new products developed under licenses to the licensor for approval prior to release. This approval is generally discretionary. Rejection or delay in approval of a product by a licensor could prevent us from selling the product. In addition, our failure to meet their standards would harm our ability to obtain future licenses. The owners of intellectual property licensed by us generally reserve the right to protect the intellectual property against infringement. If any of these owners fails to protect its own, or infringes someone else’s, intellectual property, it would weaken the value of our license and expose us to damages. 22 We may experience increased costs to continue to attract and retain senior management and highly qualified software developers. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance of senior management and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified software developers. We believe that as a result of consolidation in our industry, there are now fewer highly skilled independent developers available to us. Competition for these developers is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining them on terms acceptable to us or at all. An increase in the costs necessary to attract and retain skilled developers and any delays resulting from the inability to attract necessary developers or departures may adversely affect our revenues, margins and results of operations. The loss of a member of our senior management personnel could also have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products contain errors, our reputation, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As video games incorporate new technologies, adapt to new hardware platforms and become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. If, despite our testing procedures, errors are found in new products after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of revenues, delay in timely market acceptance of our products and damage to our reputation, any of which may negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property, our revenues may be adversely affected. The intellectual property embodied in our video games, especially our games for play on PCs, is susceptible to infringement, particularly through unauthorized copying of the games, or piracy. The increasing availability of high bandwidth internet service has made, and will likely continue to make, piracy of video games more common. Infringement of our intellectual property may adversely affect our revenues through lost sales or licensing fees, particularly where consumers obtain pirated video game copies rather than copies sold by us, or damage to our reputation where consumers are wrongly led by infringers to believe that low-quality infringing material originated from us. Preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, and thereby ultimately not cost-effective, especially where the infringement takes place in foreign countries where the laws are less favorable to rights holders or not sufficiently developed to afford the level of protection we desire. If we infringe the intellectual property of others, our costs may rise and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Although we take precautions to avoid infringing the intellectual property of others, it is possible that we or our third-party developers have done so or may do so in the future. The increasing number and complexity of elements in our products that results from the advances in the capabilities of video game platforms increases the probability that infringement may occur. Claims of infringement, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, as a result of disputes over intellectual property, we may be required to discontinue the distribution of our products, obtain a license or redesign our products, any of which could result in substantial costs and material delays and materially adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including our ability to generate international demand for our products. We conduct a portion of our development and publishing activities in foreign countries, and we derive an increasing proportion of our net revenues from outside the United States. International development, sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • our ability to obtain or enforce our rights to the intellectual property developed by developers outside the United States; • the time and costs associated with translating and localizing products for foreign markets; 23 • foreign currency fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including import and export control regulations; and • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, or licensing to foreign entities. Any of these risks could adversely affect our costs, results of operations and financial condition. We may face limitations on our ability to find suitable acquisition opportunities or to integrate any additional acquired businesses. Since January 2004, we have added four product development studios in order to improve and increase our internal product development capabilities. We intend to pursue additional acquisitions of companies, properties and other assets that can be purchased or licensed on acceptable terms and that we believe will benefit our business. Some of these transactions could be material in size and scope. Although we continue to search for additional acquisition opportunities, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition targets available at an acceptable price. As the interactive entertainment software industry continues to consolidate, we face significant competition in seeking and consummating acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or an acquisition may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our existing stockholders. Future acquisitions could also divert substantial management time and result in short-term reductions in earnings or special transaction or other charges. We may also be required to take significant charges related to acquisitions, including from in-process research and development, reductions-in-force, facility reductions or other issues, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we may acquire into our existing business. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions. Through their control of over 85% of our outstanding common stock, Sumner M. Redstone and his related parties decide the outcome of votes of our stockholders and are able to control our business strategies and policies. As of March 5, 2007, Sumner M. Redstone owns directly and indirectly through National Amusements, Inc. (“NAI”) and Sumco, Inc. (“Sumco”) for each of which he is the controlling stockholder, a total of 80,339,266 shares, or 87.9%, of our outstanding common stock, based on his most recent report on Form 4, as filed on February 8, 2007. Mr. Redstone is Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of NAI. NAI is the parent company of Viacom Inc. (“Viacom”). Mr. Redstone also is the Chairman of the board of directors of Viacom. Mr. Redstone may acquire additional shares of our common stock at any time. Mr. Redstone’s spouse owns 17,500 shares of our common stock, for which Mr. Redstone disclaims beneficial ownership. Through his ownership of our common stock, Mr. Redstone controls the outcome of all corporate actions that require the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our directors, adoption of employee compensation plans and transactions involving a change of control. Mr. Redstone’s daughter, Shari E. Redstone, is the Vice-Chairperson of our board of directors and the Non-Executive Vice-Chair of the board of directors of both Viacom and CBS Corporation (“CBS”), an affiliate of Viacom. Ms. Redstone also serves on the board of directors of NAI, where she is also the President, and is President of Sumco. As President of each of NAI and Sumco, Ms. Redstone has sole authority with respect to their investments in our company, including sole voting and investment power with respect to shares of our common stock. See “— Decisions by Mr. Redstone and his related parties with respect to their ownership or trading of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and our convertible senior notes.” A member of our board of directors, Joseph A. Califano, Jr., also serves on the board of directors of CBS. Mr. Califano served on the Viacom board of directors from 2003 until the split of Viacom and CBS in 2005. Another member of our board of directors, Robert J. Steele, currently serves as Vice President — Strategy and Corporate Development for NAI. In addition, Mr. Redstone recommended the nomination of each member of our board of directors. Through his selection of and influence on members of our board of directors, Mr. Redstone has the ability to control our business strategies and policies. 24 Decisions by Mr. Redstone and his related parties with respect to their ownership or trading of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and our convertible senior notes. Mr. Redstone and his related parties may or may not purchase additional shares of our common stock. If Mr. Redstone or his related parties purchase additional shares of our common stock, it could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, which could negatively affect our common stock price and the value of the Notes. In the event beneficial ownership of Mr. Redstone and his related parties equals or exceeds 90% of the aggregate fair market value of our outstanding capital stock, calculated as described in the indentures for the Notes, we may be forced to issue additional shares of our common stock to the holders of the Notes upon their election to convert the Notes. Alternatively, Mr. Redstone or his related parties may sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at any time on the open market or otherwise. The sale by Mr. Redstone or his related parties of any of their shares of our common stock would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Mr. Redstone’s or his related parties’ failure to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the open market could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Mr. Redstone or his related parties could also sell their controlling interest to a third party who may not agree with our business strategies and policies. On December 28, 2005, Mr. Redstone disclosed that he had transferred 32,784,673, or about 41%, of his shares of our common stock to Sumco, a corporation of which Mr. Redstone indirectly owns a controlling interest. In connection with that transfer, Mr. Redstone and Sumco entered into an agreement pursuant to which Shari E. Redstone, as President of each of NAI and Sumco, would have sole voting and investment power over shares of our common stock held by NAI and Sumco, as well as sole authority with respect to all decisions relating to business and possible strategic decisions in which we are involved and may involve NAI or Sumco, in each case subject to the authority of their respective boards of directors. Under the agreement, provided that Mr. Redstone is not buying or selling shares of our common stock, Shari E. Redstone must consult with him on all material issues involving our company. On February 8, 2007, Mr. Redstone disclosed that he had sold an additional 12,433,557, or about half, of his remaining shares of our common stock to Sumco. Mr. Redstone’s total beneficial ownership of our common stock did not change as a result of this transaction. In addition, in June 2004, Mr. Redstone reported that he engaged a financial advisor to provide services in connection with the evaluation of a possible “going private” or other transaction. Mr. Redstone has also reported that Midway could be considered as a potential Viacom acquisition candidate. In 2004, Viacom established an Ad Hoc Committee on Electronic Games to consider any proposed transactions or business arrangements between Viacom and Midway. According to Viacom’s proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting filed with the Commission, it dissolved the Ad Hoc Committee in connection with the separation of Viacom and CBS on December 31, 2005. In addition, our board of directors has established a special independent committee, comprised of three independent directors who are disinterested with respect to matters relating to Mr. Redstone and his affiliates, to consider any proposed transactions with Mr. Redstone or any of his affiliates. If Mr. Redstone or his related parties consummates a “going private” transaction, it would constitute a fundamental change under the Notes, triggering an increase in the conversion rate to the Notes. In addition, if Mr. Redstone or his related parties sells or otherwise transfers their shares to a third party in a transaction that would constitute a change in control under the indentures to the Notes, it would also constitute a fundamental change under the Notes and the holders of these notes may require us to repurchase their notes upon such a fundamental change. 25 Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit a change in control of Midway and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors or management could use several charter or statutory provisions as anti-takeover devices to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Midway. The use of these provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock: Blank check preferred stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of our common stock. We currently have no shares of preferred stock outstanding and we have no current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock. Charter provisions Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that: • directors may be removed only for cause by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of the stockholders by holders of shares of our common stock entitled to vote; • any vacancy on our board of directors may be filled only by a vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office; • stockholders may not act by written consent; • only the Chairman or our board of directors by a majority vote may call special meetings of stockholders, and the only business permitted to be conducted at such special meetings is business brought before the meeting by or at the direction of our board of directors; • stockholders must follow an advance notice procedure for the submission of director nominations and other business to be considered at an annual meeting of stockholders; • either a majority vote of our board of directors or an affirmative vote of holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote is needed in order to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; and • either a majority vote of our board of directors or an affirmative vote of holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote is needed in order to amend or repeal the above provisions. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with anyone who owns at least 15% of its common stock. This prohibition lasts for a period of three years after that person has acquired the 15% ownership. The corporation may, however, engage in a business combination if it is approved by its board of directors before the person acquires the 15% ownership or later by its board of directors and two-thirds of the stockholders of the public corporation. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile due to certain factors, including, but not limited to, quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; actions by our majority stockholder; our product development or release schedule; general conditions in the video game software, entertainment, media or electronics industries; timing of the introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new platforms; or changes in earnings estimates. 26 Shares available for future issuance, conversion and exercise could have an adverse effect on the earnings per share and the market price of our common stock. Any future issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Notes or upon exercise of stock options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of the Notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the Notes. As of March 5, 2007, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 3.7 million shares of common stock, and an additional 2.7 million shares were reserved for future issuance under our stock option and incentive plans. Our stock options are generally exercisable for a period of nine years, beginning one year after the date of grant. Stock options are exercised, and the underlying common stock is generally sold, at a time when the exercise price of the options is below the market price of the common stock. Therefore, the exercise of these options generally has a dilutive effect on our common stock outstanding at the time of sale that could decrease our earnings per share. Exercises also may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Even the potential for the exercise of a large number of options with an exercise price significantly below the market price may depress the future market price of our common stock. The Notes are convertible at any time into shares of our common stock, at the holder’s option, at the then-applicable conversion price. Conversion of the Notes generally will have a dilutive effect on our common stock outstanding at the time of conversion that could decrease our earnings per share and also may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors has broad discretion with respect to the issuance of 76.6 million authorized but unissued shares of common stock, 1.1 million treasury shares and 4,995,250 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, subject to applicable New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules and agreements with our lenders. Our board of directors may decide to issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to compensate our employees and executives. The issuance or expected issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Notes, exercise of the securities described above or the issuance of new securities could reduce significantly the earnings or loss per share of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 