RISK FACTORS Set out below is a discussion of certain factors which could adversely affect the Group’s future results and financial position. The factors discussed below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties because there may be risks and uncertainties of which the Group is not aware or which the Group now does not consider significant but which in the future may become significant. Challenging economic environment The Group’s businesses are subject to inherent risks arising from macroeconomic conditions in the Group’s main markets, particularly conditions in Ireland, the UK and the US. Adverse developments, such as the ongoing deterioration in general economic conditions and in global financial markets, have already adversely affected the Group’s earnings and are likely to continue to affect its results, financial condition and prospects. The global financial system has been experiencing difficulties since August 2007 and the global financial markets have deteriorated very significantly since September 2008. This has resulted in severe dislocation of financial markets around the world resulting in material declines in the values of nearly all assets classes and unprecedented levels of illiquidity. This has caused the development of substantial problems at a number of large global commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies, many of which are the Group’s counterparties in the ordinary course of its business. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. There are growing indications of a deep and prolonged global recession. Despite measures by the European Central Bank and the UK and US Governments to stabilise the financial markets, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have continued. These conditions have already adversely affected the Group and have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, liquidity and availability of credit for financial institutions, including the Group, and other corporations. The above described adverse macroeconomic conditions have caused a decline in demand for business products and services and decreases in business and consumer confidence, lower personal expenditure and consumption, increases in debt service burden on both consumers and businesses, and limitations on the general availability and cost of credit. These conditions have affected significantly and will continue to affect the Group’s customers and, by extension, the demand for, and supply of, the Group’s products and services and the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, higher unemployment, reduced corporate profitability, increased corporate and personal insolvency rates higher and borrowing costs may reduce borrowers’ ability to repay loans and may cause prices of residential and commercial property or other asset prices to fall further, thereby reducing the value of collateral on many of the Group’s loans and significantly increasing write downs and impairment losses. Liquidity/Funding risk Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, including deposit withdrawals and funding commitments, as they fall due. This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise specific factors, including an over reliance on a particular source of funding (including, for example, short term and overnight funding, securitisations and covered bonds), changes in credit ratings or market wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. Since August 2007, the global economy and the global financial system have been experiencing an ongoing period of significant turbulence and uncertainty. Credit markets worldwide have experienced and continue to experience a severe reduction in the level of liquidity and quantum of term funding available in the wholesale markets. The terms on which such funding is available has become more onerous and expensive. Counterparty risk (including the perception of such risk) between banks has also increased significantly following the collapse of Lehmans in mid September 2008. The Group’s liquidity management aims to focus on maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its operations, controlling the mismatch of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and contingent liabilities. Whilst the Group has remained in compliance with all external liquidity limits and ratios, the dislocation in the wholesale markets has impacted the pricing and availability of liquidity and term funds for the 11 Table of Contents Group, as it has with most other financial institutions. This market dislocation has led to the introduction of a range of government guarantee schemes in a number of markets including Ireland. Should the dislocation persist or worsen, the price of liquidity may rise and liquidity may be further constrained. Like many banks, the Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of its funding requirements. The Group’s lending activities depend on the availability of customer deposits on appropriate terms, for which there is increasing competition. This reliance has increased in the recent past given the difficulties in accessing wholesale funding. Any material decrease in the Group’s deposits could have a negative impact on the Group’s liquidity. The availability of commercial deposits is often dependent on credit ratings and any further downgrade could limit the Group’s liquidity and therefore increase liquidity risk. The ongoing availability of these deposits is also subject to fluctuations due to certain factors outside the Group’s control, such as a loss of confidence of depositors in the economy in general and the financial services industry specifically, competitive pressures, general economic conditions and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees. These factors could lead to a reduction in the Group’s ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms or within a short period of time in the future, and to sustained outflows all of which would impact on the Group’s ability to meet its liquidity requirements. In addition to the continuing lack of liquidity and high cost of funds in the interbank lending market, which are unprecedented in recent history, the Group is and will continue to be subject to the risk of deterioration of the commercial soundness or perceived soundness of other financial services institutions within and outside the main markets in which the Group operates. Within the banking industry the default of any institution could lead to defaults by other institutions. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions because the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of their credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Group interacts on a daily basis, which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s ability to raise new funding and on the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Credit Risk Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of both secured and unsecured loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group’s businesses. The outlook for the global economy in 2009/10 has significantly deteriorated in the last 12 months. Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Group’s borrowers, counterparties and their guarantors, including sovereigns, or adverse changes arising from a general deterioration in global economic conditions or systemic risks in the financial systems have reduced, and are expected to continue to reduce, the recoverability and value of the Group’s assets and have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, the quantum of impaired loans and impairment charges. Furthermore, the Group’s performance may be affected by future recovery rates on assets, which may continue to deteriorate in line with a deteriorating economy. Additionally, historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates may no longer be accurate given the unprecedented market disruption. The Group has exposures to a range of customers in different sectors, including exposures to investors in and developers of commercial and residential property. Property prices have shown significant declines throughout the last year and developers of commercial and residential property are facing particularly challenging market conditions, including substantially lower prices and volumes. Beyond this sector, economic conditions are deteriorating more broadly and this may lead to further declines in values of collateral and investments, weakening consumer and corporate spending, declining corporate profitability and an increase in corporate insolvencies. Residential property prices are declining in Ireland and the UK. Many borrowers in Ireland and the UK borrow on short term fixed or discounted floating rates and when such rates expire, the continued reduced supply and stricter terms of lending, together with the potential for higher borrowing rates, have led and will continue to lead to higher delinquency rates. These developments could have a materially adverse impact on the Group’s ability to recover on these loans or lead to write downs of investments. The Group has also been exposed to increased counterparty risk as a result of recent financial institution and corporate failures and nationalisations, including recent events in Ireland, and will continue to be exposed to the risk 12 Table of Contents of loss if counterparty financial institutions or other corporate borrowers fail or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations. Capital Effective management of the Group’s capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy. The Group’s business and financial condition could be affected if it is not able to manage its capital effectively or if the amount of capital is insufficient due to a materially worse than expected financial performance including, for example, reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write downs or otherwise, increases in risk weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets as a result of market conditions or otherwise. Government Guarantee Scheme/Government Recapitalisation The Group participates in the guarantee scheme for deposits and specified liabilities implemented by the Irish Government pursuant to the Credit Institutions (Financial Support) Act 2008. The financial position of the Group could be impacted by the termination, amendment or cancellation of the scheme or the removal of the Group from the scheme, prior to its termination. The Group’s financial position may also be impacted by changes to the costs of participating in the scheme. The Irish Government via the National Pensions Reserve Fund Commission invested €3.5 billion in Bank preference stock capital on March 31, 2009. The terms and conditions of the Government guarantee scheme and recapitalisation place certain restrictions on, and require the Group to submit to a degree of governmental regulation in relation to the operation of the Group’s business. In particular, obligations to reduce risk profile and meet target ratios including, inter alia, specific targets for increased lending capacity to small to medium enterprises and residential mortgages, accept board appointees and controls on acquisitions and dividend payments could limit the Group’s ability to determine independently its corporate strategy or adversely affect the Group’s financial condition. National Asset Management Agency On April 7, 2009, the Irish Government announced its intention to establish the National Asset Management Agency (NAMA) to take control of land and development assets of the covered Irish financial institutions. Details on how NAMA will operate and the valuation at which these assets will transfer to NAMA have not been determined. The outcome may adversely affect the Group’s results, financial condition and prospects. Market Risk The Group can be exposed to market risks such as changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and bond and equity prices. Changes in interest rate levels and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing rates, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress, such as those experienced in the past year. Changes in currency rates, particularly the euro sterling exchange rate, impact the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the Group’s overseas operations (principally UK Financial Services) and may affect income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets may affect the value of the Group’s investment and trading portfolios. While the Group has no direct exposure to equity markets, changes in equity prices may effect the present value of the fee income that is linked to the value of equity assets under management. In addition, the Group’s defined benefit schemes are predominantly invested in equities. Refer to note 38 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on these schemes. While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Group’s financial performance and business operations. 13 Table of Contents Valuation Risk The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately not turn out to be accurate. In establishing the value of certain financial instruments that are recorded at fair value, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data. In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, such as during the current financial crisis. In such circumstances, the Group’s internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value. In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies. Such assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions. The resulting change in the fair values of the financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s earnings and financial condition. Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and has made it difficult to value certain of the Group’s financial instruments. Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could have a negative effect on the Group’s results or financial condition. Change of Control Change of control provisions may be triggered if any party acquires control of the Group, which may lead to adverse consequences for the Group. The government’s preference stock investment has not led to any such provision being incurred. Ordinary stockholders may be at risk of dilution in the event that the Group is required to raise additional capital and that this is not available from ordinary stockholders. In the current volatile market, there is a risk to ordinary stockholders of increased ownership by the Irish Government and of nationalisation. Key Staff The Group’s future success and financial strength depends on its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel. The loss of the services of key employees could have a negative impact on the Group’s future success and financial strength. Good employee relations are vital to the Group and the success of its business. In the event that the Group is impacted by industrial action or other labour conflicts, this may result in disruption to the Group’s business, loss of customers and increased costs and could have a material and adverse impact on the Group’s future results and financial condition. Operational Risk The Group’s businesses are dependent on their ability to process and report accurately and efficiently a high volume of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products and services, in different currencies and subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes. Operational risks and losses can arise from fraud (internal or external), errors made by employees or by third parties, a failure to obtain proper authorisation for or to properly document transactions, a failure to comply with relevant regulatory rules and regulations (including those arising from anti money laundering and anti terrorism legislation), failures or inadequacies in equipment, systems and controls or natural disasters. Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions to ensure that key operational risks are managed in a timely and effective manner, there can be no assurance that these controls or actions will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group. Any weakness in these controls or actions could result in an adverse impact on the Group’s results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Pension Risk The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for current and past employees and some of these schemes have a significant deficit as calculated under the relevant accounting rules — International Accounting Standard (IAS) 19. Given the current economic and financial market difficulties and the prospects for them to continue over the short and medium term, the Group may be required to or elect to make additional contributions to the pension schemes. Such contributions could be significant and may have a negative impact on the Group’s financial condition. Trends in pension scheme assets and liabilities which ultimately lead to schemes falling below the statutory minimum funding levels could have an adverse impact on the Group’s capital position. Taxation Risk In accordance with accounting rules, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered. The assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and are subject to change in respect of the tax rate or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses. A failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation may reduce the recoverable amount of the deferred tax assets currently recognised in the financial statements. Life Insurance Risk The Group’s insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks involving claims. Future claims in the Group’s general and life assurance business may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience resulting from causes outside of the Group’s control. These trends could adversely affect the profitability of current and future insurance products and services. The Group reinsures some of the risks it has assumed and is accordingly exposed to the risk of loss should its reinsurers become unable or unwilling to pay claims made by the Group against them. Reputation Risk The Group’s operations have inherent reputational risk. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business activities or from actual or perceived practices in the banking industry, such as money laundering or misselling of financial products. Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Group’s ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors. The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk. Legal and Regulatory Risk The Group operates in a legal and regulatory environment that exposes it to potentially significant litigation and regulatory risks. Disputes and legal proceedings in which the Group may be involved are subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier stages of a case or investigation. Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgements in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the Group’s operations or result in a material adverse impact on the Group’s reputation, results of operations or financial condition. Deposit Compensation Schemes The Group participates in compensation, contributory or reimbursement schemes in respect of banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their obligations to customers. The Group may incur additional costs and liabilities as a result of participation in these schemes, which may negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. 