Item 1A. Risk Factors Our substantial indebtedness could affect our operations and flexibility. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness was approximately $325 million, excluding approximately $65 million of indebtedness pursuant to the 9 5/8% Notes that were redeemed on January 3, 2006. As of the close of the March 2006 Refinancing on March 30, 2006, our total indebtedness, including redeemable preferred stock, was $370.0 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements; and • limit our flexibility in responding to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase, because all of our debt under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement bears interest at floating rates, although the Company plans to enter into hedging arrangements with respect to certain of its interest rate risk during 2006. Our ability to service our debt and meet our cash requirements depends on many factors. We currently anticipate that operating cash flow and the Revolver (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Long-Term Debt") will be sufficient to cover our operating and capital spending requirements for 2006. However, if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or have funds available for borrowing under our credit facilities, we would be required to adopt one or more alternatives. For example, we could be required to: • reduce or delay capital spending, including spending required for the transition to digital image capture; • restructure our indebtedness; • seek capital contributions or loans from our affiliates; and/or • issue and sell our equity securities. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Restrictions and covenants in debt agreements may limit our ability to take certain actions and our failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions, whether or not caused by events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries' ability, among other things, to: 7 • borrow money; • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions; • pay dividends on stock or purchase stock; • make capital expenditures; • sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • make certain investments or acquisitions. In addition, these instruments also require us to maintain certain financial ratios and meet certain tests, including minimum interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios and minimum levels of EBITDA (as defined in such instruments), and restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to make capital expenditures. Events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment, could impair our operating performance, which could affect our ability and that of our subsidiaries to comply with the terms of our debt instruments. From time to time we have been unable to comply with certain covenants in our debt instruments and have had to seek the approval of our lenders to amend those instruments (see ‘‘Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Long Term Debt’’). Although our lenders have accommodated us to date, we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so in the future. We cannot assure you that we and our subsidiaries will be able to comply with the provisions of our respective debt instruments. Breaching any of these covenants or restrictions or the failure to comply with our obligations after the lapse of any applicable grace periods could result in a default under the applicable debt instruments. If there were an event of default, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow or that of our subsidiaries would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under the outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our or our subsidiaries' other debt instruments. See ‘‘—Our substantial indebtedness could affect our operations and flexibility.’’ We depend on the feature film, series television program and television commercial markets. Our operations are dependent on the feature film industry, including, in particular, the number of major studio feature films, which tend to use larger camera packages than the feature films made by independent producers. We are also dependent on the number of series television programs and television commercials produced. A significant reduction in the total number of feature films, particularly major studio or large-budget action films, series television programs and television commercials produced, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, a reduction in the average equipment rental package size could have an adverse affect on our revenues for each such project, and in turn, an adverse affect on our results of operations. Further, the rental revenue generated from our lighting rental operations depends on the number of feature films, television programs and commercials produced, as well as the location of such production activity (while we have a global network of camera rental offices and independent distributors, we have a smaller number of lighting operations and film and television productions tend to rent lighting equipment from rental agencies in the territories where the productions are filmed). Labor disruptions in these industries could also adversely affect our operations. In North America, the Writers Guild of America, the Screen Actors Guild and other organizations periodically enter into negotiations with the major motion picture studios for the renewal of their respective collective bargaining agreements. These negotiations occasionally have resulted in strikes or other work stoppages. Labor disruptions due to such negotiations could significantly reduce production activities. Labor disruptions in our international territories, arising from local labor issues, could also occur. Such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. 8 In addition, feature film and television production is in part reliant on the availability of tax and other incentives from government organizations. These incentives change from time to time and any elimination or adverse change in availability of incentives can lead to a reduction in production activity which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. Responding to the rapid geographic shift of our customers, particularly feature film productions, creates operational challenges and failure to successfully respond to such challenges may adversely affect results of operations. Although we have in place a broad network of camera rental offices and distributors, there are often rapid and significant shifts in production activity between different states, countries and continents from year to year in response to changes in local tax incentives, currency fluctuations, labor market conditions, location preferences and other factors. Responding to these trends often requires the relocation of significant amounts of equipment, the establishment of new operations, or resizing existing operations, all of which may involve significant additional expense. If we are unable to respond to these geographic changes efficiently or effectively, we may lose certain productions to competitors which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The markets for our products are highly competitive. The market for our cinematography equipment is highly competitive, primarily driven by technology, customer service and price. As a manufacturer of camera equipment, our primary competitor is Arri Inc. Our primary competitors in the lens manufacturing business are Zeiss and Cooke Optics Limited, who are also the primary suppliers of lenses to our rental competitors. As a renter of camera and lighting equipment, we compete with numerous rental houses, which purchase equipment from other manufacturers and then rent that equipment to their customers. In addition, in recent years Arri has also been expanding its own rental operations. Although fragmented, the lighting rental market is also highly competitive and driven by price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop, manufacture and market our camera and lighting products successfully against existing or new competitors. As we continue to see our industry transition from film to digital image capture, we are likely to see a number of new technological competitors that may include existing or new film or digital camera manufacturers and other companies that have a history of technological innovation in the digital arena. The digital camera rental market may be highly competitive and there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in capturing the market share in the digital camera rental market as we have been in the traditional camera rental market, or that the revenue and cash flows generated from the rental of digital cameras will compare favorably to the levels we experience in the traditional camera rental market. A number of these new competitors have significantly greater research and development resources and financial resources than us and we cannot assure that we will be able to effectively compete or achieve successful alliances with these companies. The motion picture and television industries are subject to changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings. The motion picture and television industries are subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements including artistic preferences and trends, and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. The choice of image capture equipment is very often driven by artistic preferences of particular cinematographers that may change over time. Predicting the trend of such preferences is difficult, particularly with respect to new technologies such as digital image capture. Our ability to anticipate and adapt to all of these changes will be significant factors in our ability to remain a leader in the manufacturing and rental of cinematography equipment. Keeping pace with technological advancements is an important part of our ability to compete. There can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete or that we will be able to develop new products to meet the changes and demands in our industry. Further, some existing products for which we currently have exclusivity, such as a camera similar to the Genesis® camera, may become available to competitors and this may have an adverse affect on our ability to compete effectively and, in turn, on our results of operations. 9 One of the most significant changes we are likely to encounter over the next several years is the emerging demand for digital image capture. In addition to the potential competitive pressures in this new market discussed above, the transition poses other significant challenges for us. It is difficult for us to anticipate the rate at which our customers will want to move from traditional film equipment to digital equipment, and which of our customers will want to make that transition. If the transition to digital image capture occurs more rapidly than we anticipate, it will create pressure for additional capital expenditures and increased expenses in addition to technological challenges and we cannot assure that we will be able to make such investments or respond rapidly enough to meet the change in demand. If our competitors are able to anticipate and respond to the pace of transition to digital image capture more effectively than us, it will adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and competitive position depends, in part, on our ability to protect and exploit our new and existing intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, licensing arrangements, trade names, trade and service marks, proprietary know-how and technology and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. We own or have been assigned or licensed domestic and foreign patents and patent applications relating to our cameras, lenses and accessories. We also own or have been assigned several domestic and foreign trademark or service mark registrations which, collectively, are material to our business. The success of our business operations and competitive position within our industry depends, in part, on our continued ability to obtain intellectual property rights for our new products. Our existing intellectual property rights may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors. Our manufacturing competitors may challenge our patents or independently develop similar products that could result in an interference proceeding in the U.S. Patent Trademark Office or a legal action. Enforcing our rights under these circumstances may be difficult, costly and time consuming. Our manufacturing competitors may also be able to design around our patents or develop unique products providing technology similar to our products. In addition, our ability to use our patent rights, as well as our ability to obtain new patent rights, may be more limited in certain markets outside of the United States because the protections available in other jurisdictions may not be as extensive as those available domestically. We may not be successful in implementing strategies for future growth. If we fail to successfully implement strategies for future growth, including developing and manufacturing technologically superior cameras, lenses and accessories, we may not be able to grow or remain competitive. We have recently introduced, and plan in the future to introduce, new products in the markets in which we compete; however, demand for our new products may not materialize. In addition, as part of our strategy for growth, we may plan from time to time to pursue strategic acquisitions, which will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to support our growth. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain existing and additional highly skilled personnel. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. To meet our planned growth, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our existing personnel and to hire, train and retain new, highly skilled personnel, particularly in the areas of research and development, engineering, equipment service and finance. Competition for quality personnel in each of these areas is intense, particularly with respect to all areas relating to digital image capture expertise. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in hiring, assimilating or retaining the necessary personnel, and our failure to do so could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We are dependent upon key suppliers. We use outside vendors for the manufacture of certain components used in our products, such as the grinding, manufacture and polishing of certain camera lens elements. We currently obtain the glass we use 10 to manufacture our camera lenses from predominantly one vendor, Raytheon Corporation, and Sony is the vendor of the majority of our digital image capture camera inventory. We generally do not have supply contracts with our outside vendors. If we were to lose one or more of such vendors, or if we were otherwise unable to obtain such components on terms that are favorable to us, it could disrupt our business in a manner that leads to an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to the effects of foreign currency fluctuations and social, political and economic risks affecting foreign operations. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 59%, 60% and 61% of our revenue, respectively, was generated outside of the United States. We consider revenue generated outside of the United States to be revenue derived from the rental and sale of products for productions that are filmed outside United States. We expect that international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in future periods. As of December 31, 2005 and as of the close of the March 2006 Refinancing, all but $9.4 million and $9.2 million, respectively, of our indebtedness comprised obligations denominated in United States dollars, and we expect this to continue to be the case. The results of operations of our international subsidiaries are translated from international currencies to United States dollars. Therefore, our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between such currencies. In addition to foreign exchange risk, international operations are subject to a number of special risks, including trade barriers, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, political risks and risk of increases in duties, taxes and governmental royalties, as well as changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies. In addition, earnings of foreign subsidiaries and intercompany payments are subject to foreign income tax rules that may reduce cash flow available to meet required certain of our debt service and other obligations of Panavision. We depend on our facility in California. Our sole camera and lens manufacturing facility is located in Woodland Hills, California. It is also our largest warehousing and camera rental facility. Since we are dependent on this manufacturing, warehousing and rental facility, a disruption of our operations at this facility could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such disruption could result from various factors including human error, a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire or flood, or a terrorist attack. We do not own the real estate for any of our principal facilities. Accordingly our business is highly dependent upon the ability to renew existing leases or locate new leasehold premises. As we do not own the real estate on which any of our principal facilities, including Woodland Hills, California, are located throughout the world, we depend on our ability to renew existing leases as they expire or to locate suitable alternate locations. Many of our operations are located in markets where there is significant competition for appropriate commercial real estate, that may make it difficult, or more expensive, to renew existing leases or to obtain suitable alternate locations, if necessary. In addition, if it becomes necessary to relocate existing facilities it may cause significant disruption to our operations. Failure to effectively manage these real estate challenges may have an adverse affect on our operations and, accordingly, our results of operations. We are developing new information systems and if we are unsuccessful in the development and implementation of such systems, it could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to run our business. In conjunction with an external consulting company, we are in the process of developing a new information system that, if successful, is expected to provide significant improvements to the core functions of our rental operations, asset management, and related financial functions. The development of this system for global deployment will require a significant commitment of time from employees across a broad range of functions, which may distract our employees from the successful performance of their existing functions. Given that this system is being custom built for our operations, the development of this system poses a number of challenges including managing a large fleet of physical assets located in numerous locations around the world, accounting for local regulatory and practical differences in our 11 operations around the world, making necessary changes to our existing work practices to adapt to the new systems and training our personnel on the new systems. Accordingly, we may not be successful in developing and implementing this new system. Failure to smoothly and successfully develop and implement this system could interrupt our operations and adversely impact our ability to run the business. If our internal control over financial reporting does not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business may be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to comprehensively evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management's assessment. Reporting on our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be required in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. The standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are new and require significant investment of time, money and other resources, documentation and testing. If our internal control over financial reporting does not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business may be adversely affected. We are controlled by MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. (‘‘MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings’’). MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings indirectly owns approximately 96.3% of our common stock. MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings is therefore able to direct and control our policies and those of our subsidiaries, including with respect to mergers, sales of assets and similar transactions. Shares of common stock of intermediate holding companies may from time to time be pledged to secure obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings or its affiliates. A foreclosure upon any such shares could constitute a change of control and event of default, which would permit our lenders to accelerate our Senior Secured Credit Facility. We may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to repay in full the borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. Our operating results have been and may continue to be subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our revenue and net income are subject to seasonal fluctuations. For example, in North America, episodic television programs typically cease filming in the second quarter for several months, and typically resume production in August. Feature film activity typically reaches its peak in the third and fourth quarters. These seasonal factors may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 