ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have historically had working capital shortages, even following significant financing transactions and we received an opinion from our auditors indicating a substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. We have had working capital shortages in the past and, although we raised capital totaling more than $46,800,000 (net of expenses and $4,100,000 of payments related to our 8% Debentures) since May 1, 2004, we have generated significant losses, which have impacted working capital. As of April 30, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet reflects a working capital deficit of $(13,128,000). In addition, as a result of our continued operating losses and declining working capital balances during the year ending April 30, 2008, the auditors report included with our consolidated financial statements for the year ended April 30, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph indicating substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern (the "Going Concern Qualification"). This condition has continued since the date of those financial statements, and we expect that these conditions will continue for the foreseeable future unless we are able to raise a substantial amount of additional financing. In view of the matters described herein and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, our ability to continue to pursue our plan of operations as described herein is dependent upon our ability to raise the capital necessary to meet our financial requirements on a continuing basis. 10 Table of Contents Based on the amount of capital we have remaining and our expected negative cash flow from operations and investing activities, we anticipate that we will not be able to positively impact our working capital unless we are able to substantially increase our revenues or reduce our expenses thereby generating positive cash flow from operations and (ultimately) operating income. As a result of the financing in June 2008, we believe we currently have enough working capital to finance our anticipated operations and projected negative cash flow into our quarter ending October 31, 2008. In addition, if we are able to secure an offer for asset based financing from a third party, YA Global has agreed to review that proposed financing and in its sole discretion consider releasing its security interest in certain of our assets to secure that financing. If we are successful at obtaining a minimum of $1,000,000 of additional financing, we believe we could have enough working capital to finance our anticipated operations and projected negative cash flow into our fiscal year ending April 30, 2010. Because of the terms of the existing YA Global financing, we are unable to secure any additional financing without YA Global's consent and approval. Because of the potential dilution associated with the 13% Debentures and the holder's security interest in substantially all of our assets, we believe that it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain additional financing unless we are able to reach an accommodation with our existing debenture holder. If YA Global declares an Event of Default we may not be able to cure or contest such a default and few or no assets would remain for our shareholders. We currently may be non-compliant with certain covenants of the 13% Debentures and as a result, YA Global may potentially be able to, in its discretion, declare an Event of Default. In addition, it is likely that we will be unable to comply with certain financial covenants of the Term Notes during our fiscal year ending April 30, 2009 and as a result YA Global may potentially also be able to, in its discretion, declare an Event of Default on those notes. Remedies for an Event of Default include the option to accelerate payment of the full principal amount of the 13% Debentures and Term Notes, together with interest and other amounts due (a cumulative amount of $20,901,000 at April 30, 2008), to the date of acceleration and the holder will have the right to request such payment in cash or in shares (as it relates to the YA Global Debentures) of our common stock. The 13% Debentures and Term Notes are secured by all, or substantially all, of our assets. If YA Global declares an event of default on any of the 13% Debentures or the Term Notes, it is probable that we will not be able to cure the default or contest any efforts that YA Global may take to foreclose against its security interest in substantially all of our assets. Following such foreclosure, it is likely that few or no assets would remain for distribution to our shareholders. We identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess our internal control over financial reporting ("ICFR") pursuant to a defined framework. In making that assessment, management identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls as a result of several material weaknesses identified in our ICFR as described in Item 9A below. There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of internal control, and accordingly, even effective ICFR can provide only reasonable assurance with respect of financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Material weaknesses make it more likely that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In addition, effective ICFR at any point in time may become ineffective in future periods because of changes in conditions or due to deterioration in the degree of compliance with our established policies and procedures. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain further necessary financing is limited. We have historically financed our operating losses and cash flow deficits through private placements of our equity and debt securities. Our outstanding 13% Debentures and Term Notes contain significant restrictions on our ability to raise any additional capital for so long as the 13% Debentures and Term Notes are outstanding. While ultimately our ability to finance our operations will depend on our ability to generate revenues that exceed our expenses, we may in the future have short-term needs for significant additional financing which may not be available because of the outstanding 13% Debentures and Term Notes, as well as the significant number of outstanding options and warrants which contain adjustment provisions should we issue shares of our common stock at prices below the current exercise prices. We do not believe that we would be able to obtain additional financing without the cooperation of our principal debenture holder. Ultimately, if capital is needed, our only source of additional capital may be the holder of our 13% Debentures and Term Notes, and if YA Global declines (for any reason) to invest additional amounts into Isonics Corporation, we likely will not be able to continue as a going concern. Additionally, our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board generally have limited liquidity. Because our financing activities are dependent to a large extent on eventual liquidity for the investors, the delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market will make future financing activities significantly more difficult and may raise liquidity issues for current investors. We have three business segments and, for the year ended April 30, 2008, two of our three segments operated at a loss. For the years ended April 30, 2008 and 2007, our operating segments incurred operating (loss) income as follows: Year Ended April 30, 2008 2007 Homeland security products $ (2,135,000 ) $ (6,644,000 ) Security services 277,000 (425,000 ) Silicon products and services (2,026,000 ) 326,000 Reconciling amounts (2,710,000 ) (8,785,000 ) Total $ (6,594,000 ) $ (15,548,000 ) (1)Reconciling amounts for the operating (loss) income information includes corporate expenses consisting primarily of corporate salaries and benefits, professional and consulting fees, investor relations costs, insurance and directors' compensation. In January 2007, we elected to discontinue the operation of our life sciences business and put the assets and business up for sale (which was sold in June 2007). As a result, we reclassified the operations of our life sciences business as discontinued operations. We expect that these losses (on a consolidated basis) will continue for the foreseeable future. As described in the next risk factor, unless we are able to sell new products and services profitably, we may be unable to remain competitive and it is likely that our losses and negative cash flow will continue. 12 Table of Contents Unless we are able to sell our products and services profitably, we may be unable to remain competitive, furthering the likelihood that our losses and negative cash flow will continue. Our ability to generate positive cash flow, additional revenues, and ultimately net income, is dependent upon the success of our security services and silicon products and services operations and accommodations from YA Global as our principal creditor. We have suspended development of our IMS-based products and our agreement with Lucent has been cancelled. While we reported significant revenue and operating income growth in our silicon operations for the year ended April 30, 2007, many of our top silicon customers experienced weakened business results during our year ended April 30, 2008. In addition, some customers reported inventory buildup in reclaim and/or test products. As a result of these two factors, during the year ended April 30, 2008, we experienced a slowdown in orders and a reduction in average selling prices of reclaim and test materials, which had a negative impact on our results. The slowdown significantly impacted our revenues, results of operations and cash flows for the year ended April 30, 2008, in which we generated an operating loss of $(2,026,000), which includes a non-cash charge of $209,000 for stock-based compensation expense. In order to minimize the effect of the slowdown, during our year ended April 30, 2008 we implemented many cost cutting measures in our silicon operations and are continuing to do so. We have increased our marketing efforts and are hopeful that we will see a recovery during the year ending April 30, 2009. We continue to monitor the situation closely and while we believe that we will see improving financial results in this operating segment (over the long-term), we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to regain or sustain operating profitability in future periods. We had minimal success in marketing our homeland security products, having sold to date only fifteen units of our panel-mounted IMS-based product. In August 2007, we elected to suspend the development, manufacture and marketing of our IMS based products. The suspension was due primarily to a lack of working capital but we also had difficulty competing in the market space. We continue to seek alternatives to find a means of monetizing our investment in this product line, including an outright sale of the technology. It is unclear as to when (if at all) we will resume activity on our IMS-based products and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to monetize any portion of our IMS technology investment. Because there are outstanding debentures and warrants convertible into a significant number of shares of our common stock, holders of our common stock have been, and likely will continue to be subject to significant dilution and risk that, in liquidation, there will be no assets for distribution to shareholders after all creditors have received their repayment. Since May 1, 2004, we have raised in excess of $46,800,000 (net of expenses and $4,100,000 of payments related to our 8% Debentures which were issued in 2005) to finance our business operations and acquisitions. We have also issued a number of shares, options, and warrants, to acquire services and assets from third parties and pursuant to our stock option plans. Since February 29, 2008 YA Global, as our primary debt holder, has converted a total of $161,600 in the face amount of the 13% Debentures it holds into 7,527,548 shares of our common stock based on representations that it is not affiliated with Isonics. In accordance with the terms of the 13% Debentures these conversions are effected at below market prices. YA Global now holds debentures in the face amount of $11,868,400 that are convertible into shares of our common stock (plus approximately $2,000,000 in interest), and holds warrants to acquire shares of our common stock, including a warrant to acquire 13,000,000 shares of common stock at $0.03 per share. The below-market conversions to date by YA Global, and any future conversions have, and will, cause significant dilution to our shareholders. 13 Table of Contents Additionally, if possible under terms that we believe to be appropriate given our financial condition and other circumstances (including our existing capital structure), we may seek to raise additional financing during our year ending April 30, 2009. We also may issue additional shares, options, and warrants where we can to obtain necessary services. Because of the terms of our agreements with YA Global, we will not be able to obtain any additional equity or debt financing without the consent of YA Global. Some of the issuances we have made in the past and are likely to make in the future have been issued at prices below market and (as is frequently the case with declining market prices) at prices below our historical market prices. Consequently, our shareholders have suffered dilution in the value of their shares and can expect that we will be issuing additional securities on similar terms. Further dilution can be expected to occur when our outstanding options and warrants are exercised or debentures are converted at prices below the market. Our financing transactions with YA Global potentially obligate us to issue more shares of common stock than the shares of authorized capital that are currently available for issuance. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to issue up to 175,000,000 shares of common stock. Were YA Global to convert the 13% Debentures that remain convertible (approximately $12,000,000 plus approximately $2,000,000 in interest currently due) into common stock it would require the issuance of over one billion shares (using current and recent market prices), which is substantially more than the 175,000,000 shares of common stock currently authorized for issuance. Additionally, YA Global holds a warrant to purchase 13,000,000 shares of our common stock at $0.03 per share issued as part of the June 2008 financing, and in addition holds warrants to purchase 2,250,000 shares of common stock (at exercise prices ranging from $5.00 to $8.00). Accounting charges resulting from our issuance (and modification) of the 13% Debentures and Term Notes may lead to significant non-cash charges which would adversely impact future interest expense, net income and earnings per share and may also lead to future volatility in our financial statement components. As a result of the issuance (and modification) of the 13% Debentures and Term Notes, we will be required to record significant non-cash interest charges over their respective lives (in addition to interest expense relating to the 13% interest rate borne by the 13% Debentures and Term Notes). This will likely result in a significant adverse impact to future net income and earnings per share and will likely introduce additional volatility to our future operating results. Historically we depended upon few customers for a significant portion of our revenues and our business could have been materially and adversely affected if we lost any one of those customers. We have been dependent on a few significant customers who have purchased our products or services in amounts greater than 10% of our consolidated revenues. A decision by any significant customer to substantially decrease or delay purchases from us or an inability to collect significant amounts owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We have been informed that a significant security services customer will cease using our services effective July 31, 2008. The loss of this customer will cause us to re-evaluate our recorded goodwill in the first quarter of our year ending April 30, 2009, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. 14 Table of Contents We realized increased expenses, reduced revenues and longer than anticipated delays in integrating past business acquisitions into our operations, and we may face similar difficulties with future acquisitions as well. We experienced increased costs and delays in integrating the operations of the business and assets we acquired from EnCompass Materials Group, Ltd. ("EMG") in June 2004, and we also realized revenues that were significantly reduced from that which we had anticipated which adversely affected the operations of our semiconductor division. Regardless of the extent of our planning, we may recognize increased costs and delays, and reduced revenues, when integrating future business acquisitions into our business operations and strategy. While we believe that we have and will continue to plan for integration of acquired business operations to the best of our ability, we cannot offer any assurance that any or all such efforts will proceed as anticipated. If demand for any of our products grows suddenly, we may lack the resources to meet demand or we may be required to increase our capital spending significantly. If we are able to develop and market our products successfully, we may experience periods of rapid growth that place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems, and will require us to develop the management skills of our personnel and to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively manage growth could increase our costs of operations and reduce our margins and liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are dependent upon our key personnel for our future success, if we fail to retain or attract key personnel, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel and consultants, including Christopher Toffales, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Currently Mr. Toffales is covered by a one-year employment agreement that is renewable on an annual basis. We believe that our future success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel for our operations. The failure to attract or retain such persons could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face technological change and intense competition both domestically and internationally which may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The markets for our silicon products and services are characterized by evolving technology and a continuing process of development. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and market products that meet changing customer and technological needs on a cost effective and timely basis. If we fail to remain competitive by anticipating the needs of our customers and our customers contract with other suppliers, our revenues and resulting cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Our silicon products and services segment is dependent on the performance of several key pieces of equipment. If any of these items were not to perform to their ability or were taken out of service for any significant amount of time, our ability to produce product would be severely compromised. The performance of our silicon products and services segment is directly tied to the performance of several key pieces of equipment, which are typically intricate and expensive. The average time between failures is typically long and the corresponding time for repair is typically short; as a result, most of the time the issues are routine and are quickly repaired. However, this is not always the case 15 Table of Contents and there have been times in the past when critical tools have been out of service for a period of time, which had a negative impact on revenues in the short term. Further, due to our historical working capital shortages and the significant historical net losses, we are unable to purchase the necessary equipment redundancy. Any future equipment issues could have a significant impact on our ability to produce and ship the products to our customers, thereby potentially impacting both our revenues and related cash flows. We are controlled by our Board of Directors and YA Global has a security interest in substantially all of our assets; individual purchasers of our shares will have little ability to elect directors or control our management. Our shares are widely-held, and our officers and directors who beneficially own our securities in an amount of approximately 36% of the outstanding votes at any shareholders' meeting. Furthermore, YA Global holds secured indebtedness collateralizing substantially all of our assets for payment of our debt and interest to YA Global in the total amount in excess of $19,000,000 plus accrued interest. It is likely that the Board of Directors will be able to influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, unless YA Global were to foreclose on our assets and take the authority with respect to our assets away from our Board of Directors and, consequently, our shareholders. As our senior secured creditor, YA Global may also attempt to influence our Board of Directors. Such control by the Board of Directors and YA Global's security interest may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation or takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business unless such transaction was acceptable to YA Global, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. We risk exposing ourselves to an above-policy limit product liability claim, which could adversely affect our working capital, shareholders' equity and profitability. Our prior sale and use of explosive and chemical detection products may expose us to potential liability risks that are inherent with the operation of these types of products (including, but not limited to failed detection). We currently have product liability insurance; however, there is a risk that our insurance would not cover completely or would fail to cover a claim, in which case we may not have the financial resources to satisfy such claims, and the payment of claims would require us to use funds that are otherwise needed to conduct our business and make our products. Our common stock is vulnerable to pricing and purchasing actions that are beyond our control and, therefore, persons acquiring or holding our shares or warrants may be unable to resell their shares at a profit as a result of this volatility. The trading price of our securities has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, our announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, delays in our product development and marketing, and other events and factors over which we have no influence or control. The securities markets themselves have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries, public concern as to the safety of products containing radioactive compounds, economic and other external factors, all affect the market price of our securities. In addition, the realization of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" could have a significant and adverse impact on such market prices. 16 Table of Contents SEC penny stock regulations may limit the ability to trade our securities. Because Nasdaq delisted our securities from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock is subject to additional disclosure requirements for penny stocks mandated by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990. The SEC Regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that is not traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. Our stock is included within the SEC Rule 3a-51 definition of a penny stock and, as such, trading is covered by Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, adding a significant amount of broker-dealer compliance to transactions in penny stocks. Many brokers are unwilling to engage in transactions in penny stocks and, therefore, the marketability of our securities may weaken significantly. We cannot give any assurance that a stable trading market will develop for our stock. Since before our securities were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our common stock has been characterized by volatility in both pricing and volume, and a steady downward trend in our stock price since our reverse stock split completed in February 2007 (when our stock was trading for about $2.00 per share) to present (when our stock is trading at about $0.01 per share). There may be a greater risk of fraud on the OTC Bulletin Board. OTC Bulletin Board securities are more frequently targets for fraud or market manipulation because they are not regulated as closely as securities listed on exchanges. Dealers may dominate the market and set prices that are not based on competitive forces. Individuals or groups may create fraudulent markets and control the sudden, sharp increase of price and trading volume and the equally sudden collapse of market prices. While there is regulation of the OTC Bulletin Board, it is not as comprehensive as the regulation of the listed exchange. If this should occur, the value of an investment in our common stock could decline significantly. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We presently intend to retain our earnings, if any, to fund development and growth of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, the terms of the 13% Debentures contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. If we fail to effect and maintain registration of the common stock issued or issuable pursuant to conversion of our convertible debentures, or certain of our outstanding common stock warrants, we may be obligated to pay the investors of those securities liquidated damages. We have various obligations to file and obtain the effectiveness of certain registration statements, which include certain outstanding common stock and common stock underlying outstanding convertible debentures and common stock warrants. Once effective, the prospectus contained within a registration statement can only be used for a period of time as specified by statute without there being a post-effective amendment filed that has become effective under the Securities Act of 1933. If we are unable to meet these obligations, we may be obligated to pay liquidated damages. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to maintain the currency of the information contained in a prospectus or to obtain the effectiveness of any registration statement or post-effective amendments that we may file. 17 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to a significant amount of regulation. In the past we have received requests for information from the Securities and Exchange Commission and from the enforcement arm of FINRA. Any such inquiry or investigation that may result may adversely affect the market for our stock or our Company. Regulators of public companies such as Isonics Corporation have the authority to commence inquiries and investigations where the regulators have concerns. The investigations, while involving the company, may not have anything to do with actions taken by the company or our failure to act. Furthermore, the regulators may not inform us when the issues they were addressing are resolved. From October 2004 through February 2005, both the NASD (now known as FINRA) and the SEC requested documents from us with respect to inquiries they were undertaking (related primarily to questions regarding our press releases, public relations advisors, certain other disclosures that were made publicly and the termination of Grant Thornton LLP as our independent auditor). We also met with representatives of Nasdaq to discuss issues related to market activity, press announcements, SEC filings, status of our business and other issues. We provided information, which we believe to be responsive to all of the questions posed in the Nasdaq inquiry and to the SEC. We have not received any requests for additional information from either the SEC or Nasdaq relating to those earlier inquiries since February 2005 and while we believe these issues are behind us, if any action results from these inquiries in the future, it may adversely impact us, and our ability to carry on our business. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control, which could delay or prevent a takeover. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock with such designations, rights, and preferences, as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors may, without shareholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our control, although we do not currently intend to issue any additional series of our preferred stock. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors to the full extent permitted by California law, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and products. Our Bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors to the full extent permitted by California law, our state of incorporation. We may be required to pay judgments, fines, and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys' fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which such officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our products, thereby affecting our ability to attain profitability. This could cause our stock price to drop. As a result of the resignation of two directors during our fiscal year ended April 30, 2008, our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is no longer comprised solely of independent directors and our corporate governance policies and procedures may not be as effective as they previously were. In December 2007 two of our independent directors resigned from the Board of Directors. Both of these directors were members of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating Committees. Since then, Dr. Hagman has become more deeply involved in our day-to-day operations and is consulting with management while we have learned that Mr. O'Leary, a director appointed in April 2008, works with Frank Angelo, brother of the managing director of YA Global. In July 2008 an independent director resigned as well. As a result our shareholders may not enjoy the same benefits or protections associated 18 Table of Contents with corporate governance controls and other corporate oversight mechanisms overseen by companies with a larger panel of independent directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 