Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the Common Stock of the Corporation involve risk. The following discussion highlights the risks management believes are material for our Corporation, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. To be profitable we must earn more interest from our interest-earning assets than we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Bank. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates can also adversely affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our assets and liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. There are risks inherent in our lending activities, including dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to mitigate and manage credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and approval procedures, monitoring of loan concentrations and 6 Table of Contents periodic independent review of outstanding loans. We cannot be assured that these procedures will reduce credit risk inherent in the business. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and assets serving as collateral for loan repayments. In determining the size of our allowance for loan loss, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. Various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Corporation to make additional provisions for loan losses based upon information available to them at the time of their examination. An improving but a prolonged weak economy has adversely affected the financial services industry and, because of our geographic concentration in northern New Jersey, we could be impacted by adverse changes in local economic conditions. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the nation, the State of New Jersey, and the northern New Jersey area. The nation’s improving but prolonged weak economic environment has severely adversely affected the banking industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We believe recovery will continue to be slow and believe the reversal of the impact of the prolonged difficult economic conditions are likely to take time to show improvement. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, any significant decline in the real estate market in our primary market area would hurt our business and mean that collateral for our loans would have less value. As a consequence, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate securing the loan would be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition within the financial services industry could adversely affect our profitability. We face strong competition from banks, other financial institutions, money market mutual funds and brokerage firms within the New York metropolitan area. A number of these entities have substantially greater marketing and advertising resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition among depository institutions for customer deposits has increased significantly and will likely continue in the current economic environment. If we are unsuccessful in competing effectively, we will lose market share and may suffer a reduction in our margins and adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal and State regulations could restrict our business and increase our costs and non-compliance would result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the FDIC, the FRB and the State of New Jersey. The significant federal and state banking regulations that we are subject to are described herein under “Item 1. Business.” The regulation and supervision of the activities in which bank and bank holding companies may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall operations. These statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, and interpretations of policies and regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Any such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Bank may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Due to our nation’s current economic environment and a lower level of confidence in the financial markets, new federal and/or state laws and regulations of lending and funding practices and liquidity standards continue to be implemented. Bank regulatory agencies are being very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in bank examinations with respect to bank capital requirements. Any increased government oversight, including the full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, may increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies applicable to our business could result in sanctions against us by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of 7 Table of Contents operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurances that such violations will not occur. The Dodd-Frank Act requires lenders to make a reasonable, good faith determination of a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. The CFPB has promulgated a safe harbor rule for any loan that constitutes a “qualified mortgage.” Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); interest-only payments; negative-amortization; and terms longer than 30 years. Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time-consuming to make these loans, all of which could limit our growth or profitability. A breach of our information systems through a system failure, cyber-security breach, computer virus or disruption or interruption of service or a compliance breach by one of our vendors could negatively affect our reputation, our business and our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber-attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. We rely heavily upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the Internet for the purpose of data processing, communication and information exchange and to conduct and manage various aspects of our business and provide our customers with the ability to bank online. We have business continuity and data security systems, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems and controls in place to monitor vendor risks. Despite the safeguards instituted by management, our systems may be vulnerable to a breach of security through unauthorized access, phishing schemes, computer viruses and other security problems, as well as failures and disruptions of services resulting from power outages and other circumstances. The Corporation maintains policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. Our information technology environment/network, including disaster recovery and business continuity planning, are outsourced to a third party hosted environment. In addition, we rely on the service of a variety of third-party vendors to meet our data processing needs. If any of these third-party providers encounters a system failure, cyber-security breach or other difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with any of these third-party providers, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption or breach of security involving us or our vendors could result in the compromise of our confidential information and the confidential information of our customers, employees and others. In such event, we could be exposed to claims, litigation, financial losses, costs and damages. Such damages could materially affect our earnings. In addition, any failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems and could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. In addition, the negative affect on our reputation could affect our ability to deliver products and services successfully to existing customers and to attract new customers. Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The trading volume of our Common Stock remains low which could impact Common Stock prices. 8 Table of Contents The trading history of our Common Stock, which trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market, has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to decreases due to the volatility of the price of our Common Stock. Volatility in the market price of our Common Stock may occur in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in the other risk factors and the following: ·actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; ·press releases, publicity, or announcements concerning us, our competitors or the banking industry; ·changes in expectation of our future financial performance; ·future sales of our Common Stock; and ·other developments affecting us or our competitors. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling Common Stock at or above the current market price. The Corporation’s principal source of cash flow is dividends and distributions from the Bank; however, we cannot be assured that the Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to us. If the Bank fails to make dividend payments to us, and sufficient cash is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make interest and principal payments on the Subordinated Notes. Various federal and state statutes, regulations and rules limit, directly or indirectly, the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us without regulatory approval. There can be no assurances that we would receive such approval if required. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service our Subordinated Notes and other debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Subordinated Notes, will depend on our financial and operating performance. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Subordinated Notes. If our cash flows and capital resources, and the dividends we receive from the Bank, are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be unable to provide new loans, other products or to fund our obligations to existing customers and otherwise implement our business plans. As a result, we may be unable to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity issues and we might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, or seek to restructure our indebtedness, including the notes. In such event, there could be no assurance that we would be able to consummate these transactions, and proceeds of such transactions might not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. If we fail to make interest and principal payments on the Subordinated Notes, the terms of the Subordinated Notes will restrict us from paying dividends to our common shareholders and this may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. If we fail to make payments of principal or interest on the Subordinated Notes or a default occurs under the Subordinated Notes, the Corporation is not permitted to pay or declare dividends or distributions on or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payments with respect to our Common Stock. Further, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is always subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our Common Stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our Common Stock dividend in the future. Our shareholders bear the risk that no dividends will be paid on our Common Stock in future periods or that, if paid, such dividends will be reduced, which may negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Corporation will be unable to: meet its obligations as they come due; capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise; or pay regular dividends, because of the Corporation’s inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. 9 Table of Contents Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividends to shareholders. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; borrowing capacity; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a prolonged economic downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents 