Risk Factors Before you invest in our ordinary shares or American Depositary Receipts representing American Depositary Shares, which we refer to in this report as ADRs, you should understand the high degree of risk involved. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report, before you decide to purchase our ordinary shares or ADRs. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADRs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by development stage companies. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $149.1 million. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates or technologies and cannot be sure we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates or technologies, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, consummate out-licensing agreements, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates and technologies and successfully commercialize them. If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs for our drug candidates, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials depends in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate at which we are able to collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are planning clinical trials that will seek to enroll patients with the same diseases as we are studying. In addition, the multi-national nature of our studies adds another level of complexity and risk as the successful completion of those studies is subject to events affecting countries outside the United States. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis. If third parties on which we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products. We depend on independent clinical investigators, and other third-party service providers to conduct the clinical trials of our drug candidates and technologies, and we expect to continue to do so. We also may, from time to time, engage a clinical research organization for the execution of our clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but we do not control many aspects of their activities. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocol. Our reliance on these third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our responsibility to comply with the regulations and standards of the US Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and/or other foreign regulatory agencies/authorities relating to good clinical practices. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the applicable trial’s plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our products, or could result in enforcement action against us. Our international clinical trials may be delayed or otherwise adversely impacted by social, political and economic factors affecting the particular foreign country. We may conduct clinical trials in different geographical locations. Our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any of these countries, or in any future foreign country in which we may initiate a clinical trial, are subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including: · difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with clinical research organizations and physicians; · different standards for the conduct of clinical trials and/or health care reimbursement; 4 · our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians, and partners; · the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical products and treatment; and · general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. Any disruption to our international clinical trial program could significantly delay our product development efforts. If the clinical data related to our drug candidates and technologies do not confirm positive early clinical data or preclinical data, our corporate strategy and financial results will be adversely impacted. Our drug candidates and technologies are either in preclinical or clinical stages. Specifically, our lead product candidate, Recombinant Erythropoietin (rHuEPO), is planned for a Phase 1-2 clinical program and the Diversity Oriented Synthesis, or DOS program has not yet been tested in humans. In order for our candidates to proceed to later stage clinical testing, they must show positive clinical or preclinical data. While Recombinant Erythropoietin (rHuEPO) has shown promising preclinical data and has also shown promising clinical observation data for the extension and improvement of the quality of life of Multiple Myeloma terminal patients prior to it being acquired by us, preliminary results of pre-clinical, clinical observations or clinical tests do not necessarily predict the final results, and promising results in pre-clinical, clinical observations or early clinical testing might not be obtained in later clinical trials. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Any negative results from future tests may prevent us from proceeding to later stage clinical testing which would materially impact our corporate strategy and our financial results may be adversely impacted. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. If our drug candidates and technologies do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for commercial sale for any of our products. We currently do not have any drug candidates or technologies pending approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive pre-clinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials are very difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: · obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment due to narrow screening requirements; · the inability of patients to meet protocol requirements imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; · the need or desire to modify our manufacturing process; · delays, suspension, or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and · government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. 5 Following the completion of a clinical trial, regulators may not interpret data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests of our drug candidates and technologies the same way that we do, which could delay, limit or prevent our receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, the designs of our ongoing clinical trials were not, and the designs of future clinical trials may not be, reviewed or approved by the FDA prior to their commencement, and consequently the FDA could determine that the parameters of any existing or future studies are insufficient to demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. Failure to approve a completed study could also result from several other factors, including unforeseen safety issues, the determination of dosing, low rates of patient recruitment, the inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment, the inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols, and the lack of effectiveness of the trials. Specifically, in 2008, Amgen Inc. announced that US regulators added black box, or black label, warnings to its erythropoietin drugs, Epogen and Aranesp. Similar warnings were also added to Johnson and Johnson’s Procrit which is also licensed from Amgen. In the United States, a black box warning is a type of warning that appears on the package insert for prescription drugs that may cause serious adverse effects. A black box warning means that medical studies indicate that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. The new warnings warn that the erythropoietin drugs increased death and accelerated tumor growth in patients with several types of cancer, including breast and cervical. Prior labeling warned of similar risks in other types of cancers. If the clinical trials fail to satisfy the criteria required, the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies/authorities may request additional information, including additional clinical data, before approval of marketing a product. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a clinical trial could also cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process, or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates and technologies may be materially impaired. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and technologies, and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, our products and their manufacture will be subject to continual review, and there can be no assurance that such approval will not be subsequently withdrawn or restricted. Changes in applicable legislation or regulatory policies, or discovery of problems with the products or their manufacture, may result in the imposition of regulatory restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market, or result in increased costs to us. Because some of our proprietary drug candidates and technologies are licensed to us by third parties, termination of these license agreements could prevent us from developing our drug candidates. We do not own all of our drug candidates and technologies. We have acquired and/or licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drug candidates from third parties. Specifically, we have acquired the use patent on Recombinant Erythropoietin (rHuEPO) for the prolongation of multiple myeloma patients' survival and improvement of their quality of life from Bio-Gal Ltd., , who in turn licensed it from Mor Research Applications Ltd. and Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd., both Israeli private corporations, and we have licensed DOS from VivoQuest, Inc. These license agreements require us to meet development or financing milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed drugs and technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. While we have the right to defend patent rights related to our licensed drug candidates and technologies, we are not obligated to do so. In the event that we decide to defend our licensed patent rights, we will be obligated to cover all of the expenses associated with that effort. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates and technologies. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development, collaboration and commercialization of our drug candidates or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which could be time-consuming and expensive. For a further discussion on our license agreements, the patent rights related to those licenses, and the expiration dates of those patent rights, see “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Intellectual Property and Patents” and “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Licensing Agreements and Collaborations,” below. If we do not establish or maintain drug development and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates and technologies into products. We are an emerging company and do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our drug candidates and technologies on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with third parties to: 6 · assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for some of our compounds and technologies; · manufacture our drug candidates; and · market and distribute our products. For example, in 2008, we announced that we had out-licensed the DOS program to Presidio Pharmaceuticals, Inc, or Presidio. Under the terms of the license agreement, Presidio becomes responsible for the development and commercialization activities and costs related to the DOS program. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into agreements with such third-parties on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our drug candidates and technologies independently, which could result in delays. Further, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to one or more of our drug candidates and technologies. Moreover, if these development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our products. Accordingly, to the extent that we rely on third parties to research, develop or commercialize our products, we are unable to control whether such products will be scientifically or commercially successful. Even if we or our collaborative/strategic partners or potential collaborative/strategic partners receive approval to market our drug candidates, if our products fail to achieve market acceptance, we will never record meaningful revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our products; · the rates of adoption of our products by medical practitioners and the target populations for our products; · the potential advantages that our products offer over existing treatment methods or other products that may be developed; · the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products including potential generic competition; · the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our products; · the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; and · the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Specifically, Recombinant Erythropoietin (rHuEPO), if successfully developed and commercially launched for the treatment of multiple myeloma, will compete with both currently marketed and new products marketed by other companies. Health care providers may not accept or utilize any of our product candidates. Physicians and other prescribers may not be inclined to prescribe our products unless our products bring clear and demonstrable advantages over other products currently marketed for the same indications. Because we expect sales of our products to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our products to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue. If the third parties upon whom we rely to manufacture our products do not successfully manufacture our products, our business will be harmed. We do not currently have the ability to manufacture the compounds that we need to conduct our clinical trials and, therefore, rely upon, and intend to continue to rely upon, certain manufacturers to produce and supply our drug candidates for use in clinical trials and for future sales. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – Business Overview - Supply and Manufacturing,” below. In order to commercialize our products, such products will need to be manufactured in commercial quantities while adhering to all regulatory and other local requirements, all at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to enter into future third-party contract manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. 7 We believe that we will either be able to purchase Recombinant Erythropoietin (rHuEPO) from existing pharmaceutical companies or to enter into collaborative agreements with contract manufacturers or other third-parties to obtain sufficient inventory to satisfy the clinical supply needs for our planned Phase 1-2 development program for the treatment of multiple myeloma. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to find replacement manufacturers or sources, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise discontinue development and production of our drug candidates. Our contract manufacturers are required to produce our clinical drug candidates under strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, in order to meet acceptable regulatory standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of contract manufacturers to produce our drug candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, contract manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to successfully produce and market our drug candidates. Any difficulties or delays in our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of drug candidates could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or make us postpone or cancel clinical trials. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding foreign or local governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with, among other things, cGMP, in addition to other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We will not have control over, other than by contract, third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. No assurance can be given that our third-party manufacturers will comply with these regulations or other regulatory requirements now or in the future. In the event that we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers, we will not be able to commercialize our products as planned. If third-party manufacturers fail to deliver the required quantities of our products on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis may be adversely impacted and our business, financial condition or results of operations will be materially harmed. If our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our products. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. For a discussion of these competitors and their drug candidates, see “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview – Competition,” below. Some of these potential competing drugs are already commercialized or are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing safe, effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors, who may be able to market their drugs more effectively. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields present substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop products that could render our technologies or our drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our business could be harmed. As of March 31, 2009, we had 5 full-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidates and technologies, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including consultants and employees. The retention of their services cannot be guaranteed. In addition, David Grossman, our co-Chief Executive Officer’s pending employment agreement will require approval by our shareholders. We do not maintain a key man life insurance policy covering Mr. Grossman. Any acquisitions or in-licensing transactions we make may dilute your equity or require a significant amount of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may effect acquisitions or in-licensing transactions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we complete one or more such transactions in which the consideration includes our ordinary shares or other securities, your equity in us may be significantly diluted. If we complete one or more such transactions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. 8 Specifically, as per the terms of our agreement with Bio-Gal Ltd., we will be issuing 58.0 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.10 (equivalent to 290.0 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.02) and we may at our option issue 100.4 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.10 (equivalent to 500.2 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.02) to Bio-Gal Ltd. on a successful completion of a Phase 2 clinical trial (see “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Intellectual Property and Patents” and “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Licensing Agreements and Collaborations,” below). Acquisitions and in-licensing transactions also involve a number of operational risks, including: · difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology or personnel of the business; · our inability to attract and retain management, key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct the business; · our inability to maintain relationships with key third parties, such as alliance partners, associated with the business; · exposure to legal claims for activities of the business prior to the acquisition; · the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; and · the potential impairment of substantial goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. In addition, the basis for completing the acquisition or in-licensing could prove to be unsuccessful as the drugs or processes involved could fail to be scientifically or commercially viable. In addition, we may be required to pay third parties substantial transaction fees, in the form of cash or ordinary shares, in connection with such transactions. If any of these risks occur, it could have an adverse effect on both the business we acquire or in-license and our existing operations. We may not be able to successfully complete our acquisition of the use patent on Erythropoietin, and as a result may be deemed a shell company with minimal operations, which would significantly impact our ability to raise additional capital and continue operations. On March 18, 2009, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Bio-Gal Ltd, a private company, for the rights to a use patent on rHuEPO, for the treatment of MM. We intend to develop rHuEPO for the prolongation of MM patients' survival and improvement of their quality of life. MM is a severe and incurable malignant hematological cancer of plasma cells. The course of the disease is progressive, and various complications occur, until death. In accordance with the terms of the asset purchase agreement, we will issue Bio-Gal Ltd. ordinary shares representing just under 50% of the current issued and outstanding share capital of XTL. In addition, we will make a milestone payment of approximately $10 million in cash upon the successful completion of a Phase 2 clinical trial. Our Board of Directors may at its sole discretion issue additional ordinary shares to Bio-Gal Ltd in lieu of such milestone payment. We are also obligated to pay 1% royalties on net sales of the product. The closing of the transaction is subject to various conditions including: XTL’s and Bio-Gal’s shareholders’ approval, as well as completion of a financing. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing will be achieved, and that we will be able to consummate the acquisition of the use patent on rHuEPO. If we do not consummate this acquisition, we will be deemed a shell company, subject to de-listing from the NASDAQ Stock Market, if we are not then already de-listed, and our ability to raise additional capital and continue operations will be significantly impaired. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The use of our drug candidates and technologies in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates and technologies or limit commercialization of any approved products. We believe that we will be able to obtain sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our planned clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for a product; 9 · injury to our reputation; · inability to continue to develop a drug candidate or technology; · withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and · loss of revenues. Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result in material losses. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our current cash, cash equivalents and bank deposits may not be adequate to support our operations for the length of time that we have estimated. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, we may not be able to continue our operations. We expect to use, rather than generate, funds from operations for the foreseeable future. Based on our current business plan and forecast, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and bank deposits provide us with sufficient resources to fund our operations through July 2009; however, the actual amount of funds that we will need will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · the progress in successfully meeting the closing conditions for the agreement with Bio-Gal Ltd., including a financing; · the progress of our planned research activities; · the accuracy of our financial forecasts; · the number and scope of our planned development programs; · our ability to establish and maintain current and new licensing or acquisition arrangements; · our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; · the costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and · the costs and timing of regulatory approvals. We do believe, however, that we will likely seek additional capital during the next couple of months through a planned rights offering and / or public or private equity offerings or debt financings. We have made no determination at this time as to the amount or method of any such financing. The global capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. Given recent particularly adverse market conditions for small biotechnology companies, additional financing may not be available to us when we need it. We may also be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our technology. If we raise additional funds by selling ordinary shares, ADRs, or other securities, the ownership interests of our shareholders will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our drug candidates or technology, we may be unable to do so on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are not able to raise capital in a timely manner, there is a material risk regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. It is possible that we may be subject to taxation in the US, which could significantly increase our tax liability in the US for which we may not be able to apply the net losses accumulated in Israel. We have had a “permanent establishment” in the United States, or US, which began in 2005, due to the residency of the former Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer in the US, as well as other less significant contacts that we have with the US. This may continue in 2009 as well. As a result, any income attributable to such US permanent establishment would be subject to US corporate income tax in the same manner as if we were a US corporation. If this is the case, we may not be able to utilize any of the accumulated Israeli loss carryforwards reflected on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 since these losses were not attributable to the US permanent establishment. However, we would be able to utilize losses attributable to the US permanent establishment to offset such US taxable income. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that these US net operating loss carryforwards are approximately $22.6 million. These losses can be carried forward to offset future US taxable income, subject to limitation in the case of shifts in ownership of XTL, e.g. a planned offering or capital raise, resulting in more than 50 percentage point change over a three year lookback period, and expiring through 2028. US corporate tax rates are higher than those to which we are subject in the State of Israel, and if we are subject to US corporate tax, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Our subsidiary's Lease Agreement with Suga Development with respect to its former offices in Valley Cottage, New York could obligate that subsidiary to pay the remaining lease payments even though they have delivered notice of termination and mitigation to the landlord. On April 6, 2009, our wholly-owned subsidiary, XTL Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., delivered a termination notice to Suga Development, L.L.C., with respect to the leasing of approximately 33,200 sq. ft. located at 711 Executive Boulevard, Suite Q, Valley Cottage, New York 10989. We believe that the notice provided a clear indication of the termination of XTL Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.’s obligations under the lease, effective as of the date of the notice. In addition, XTL Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. informed Suga Development that upon receipt of the notice, they should use their best effort to re-rent the premises and to mitigate any damages. There can be no assurance that the landlord will not dispute the termination of the lease, and attempt to hold XTL Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. responsible for the full amount of all future unpaid lease payments, approximately $335,000. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug products and technologies and successfully defend these patents and technologies against third-party challenges. As part of our business strategy, our policy is to actively file patent applications in the US and internationally to cover methods of use, new chemical compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and dosing of the compounds and composition and improvements in each of these. See “Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Intellectual Property and Patents,” below regarding our patent position with regard to our product candidates. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. The patents we use may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. Generally, patent applications in the US are maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file those patent applications. We cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications, if issued. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the US that claim compounds or technology also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. While we have the right to defend patent rights related to the licensed drug candidates and technologies, we are not obligated to do so. In the event that we decide to defend our licensed patent rights, we will be obligated to cover all of the expenses associated with that effort. We also rely on trade secrets to protect technology where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating to some of our drug candidates and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be at risk. Specifically, we plan to pursue patent protection in the US and in certain foreign countries relating to our development and commercialization of Recombinant Erythropoietin (“rHuEPO”) for the prolongation of multiple myeloma patients' survival and improvement of their quality of life. A main use patent (United States Patent 6,579,525 “Pharmaceutical Compositions Comprising Erythropoietin for Treatment of Cancer”) was submitted by Mor Research Applications Ltd., an Israeli corporation and Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd., an Israeli corporation, in April 1998 and PCT was filed in April 1999. The patent was granted in the United States, Europe, Israel and Hong Kong. Patent applications are pending in Canada and Japan. Currently, under the license agreement which we are acquiring from Bio-Gal Ltd., we will have exclusive worldwide rights to the above patent for the use of Recombinant Erythropoietin (“rHuEPO”) in multiple myeloma. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – Business Overview - Intellectual Property and Patents.” However, we cannot guarantee the scope of protection of any issued patents, or that such patents will survive a validity or enforceability challenge, or that any pending patent applications will issue as patents. 11 Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Third parties may assert that we are using their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may have or obtain patents in the future and claim that our products infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we sue third parties to protect our patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management’s attention may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensors or us that seeks damages or an injunction of our commercial activities relating to the affected products could subject us to monetary liability and require our licensors or us to obtain a license to continue to use the affected technologies. We cannot predict whether our licensors or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any legal action against us that seeks damages or an injunction relating to the affected activities could subject us to monetary liability and/or require us to discontinue the affected technologies or obtain a license to continue use thereof. In addition, there can be no assurance that our patents or patent applications or those licensed to us will not become involved in opposition or revocation proceedings instituted by third parties. If such proceedings were initiated against one or more of our patents, or those licensed to us, the defense of such rights could involve substantial costs and the outcome could not be predicted. Competitors or potential competitors may have filed applications for, may have been granted patents for, or may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that may relate to compounds or technologies competitive with ours. If patents are granted to other parties that contain claims having a scope that is interpreted to cover any of our products (including the manufacture thereof), there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses to such patents at reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADRs Our ADRs are traded in small volumes, limiting your ability to sell your ADRs that represent ordinary shares at a desirable price, if at all. The trading volume of our ADRs has historically been low. Even if the trading volume of our ADRs increases, we can give no assurance that it will be maintained or will result in a desirable stock price. As a result of this low trading volume, it may be difficult to identify buyers to whom you can sell your ADRs in desirable volume and you may be unable to sell your ADRs at an established market price, at a price that is favorable to you, or at all. A low volume market also limits your ability to sell large blocks of our ADRs at a desirable or stable price at any one time. You should be prepared to own our ordinary shares and ADRs indefinitely. Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk of litigation and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment. The trading price of the ADRs representing our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · developments concerning our drug candidates; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · actual or anticipated variations in interim operating results and near-term working capital; · expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; 12 · conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; · delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market · changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our ordinary shares or ADRs, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management’s attention and resources even if we prevail in the litigation, all of which could seriously harm our business. Future issuances or sales of our ordinary shares could depress the market for our ordinary shares and ADRs. Future issuances of a substantial number of our ordinary shares, or the perception by the market that those issuances could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares or ADRs to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and bank deposits as of December 31, 2008 provide us with sufficient resources to fund our operations through July 2009; however, prior to the end of that period it will be necessary for us to return to the capital markets through the sale of ADRs or ordinary shares. Also, if we successfully close the Bio-Gal Ltd. transaction or make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes ordinary shares or other securities, your portion of shareholders’ equity in us may be significantly diluted. In addition, pursuant to a license agreement with VivoQuest, Inc., or VivoQuest, a privately held biotechnology company based in the US, we licensed (in all fields of use) certain intellectual property and technology related to VivoQuest’s HCV program. Pursuant to the license agreement, we may elect to issue up to an additional $34.6 million in ordinary shares to VivoQuest in lieu of cash upon achievement of certain milestones. Additionally, pursuant to the Bio Gal Ltd. agreement, we may issue 100.4 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.10 (equivalent to 500.2 million ordinary shares par value NIS 0.02) upon a successful Phase 2 program. In the future, we may also enter into additional arrangements with other third-parties permitting us to issue ordinary shares in lieu of certain cash payments. Concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares among our principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Following the planned closing of the Bio-Gal Ltd. transaction, Bio-Gal Ltd.'s stockholders and their affiliates will hold approximately 49% of our then outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, such persons, acting together, may have the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may depress the market price of our ADRs or ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares and ADRs trade on more than one market, and this may result in price variations and regulatory compliance issues. ADRs representing our ordinary shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market and our ordinary shares are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our securities on these markets is made in different currencies and at different times, including as a result of different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the US and Israel. Consequently, the effective trading prices of our shares on these two markets may differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our securities on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our securities on the other market. Were we to be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, we may then be required to follow the full rules and regulations of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. This would include the need to file regulatory documents in both Hebrew and English, the need to use International Financial Reporting Standards, and the need to comply with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. 13 We are currently not in compliance with NASDAQ rules for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market and are at risk of being delisted, which may subject us to the SEC’s penny stock rules and decrease the liquidity of our ADRs and ordinary shares. On January 27, 2009, we received a Staff Determination Letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, notifying us that the staff of Nasdaq's Listing Qualifications Department determined, using its discretionary authority under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4300, that our ADRs would be delisted from Nasdaq. The letter further stated that Nasdaq would suspend trading on our ADRs at the opening of trading on February 5, 2009, unless we appealed Nasdaq's delisting determination. Nasdaq's determination to delist our ADRs was based on Nasdaq's belief that the Company is a public shell, and that we do not meet the stockholder's equity requirement or any of its alternatives. On February 3, 2009, we appealed the determination by the Nasdaq Listing Qualification Staff to delist our ADRs from the Nasdaq Capital Market. On March 19, 2009, we participated in an oral hearing before the Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”). Nasdaq’s delisting action has been stayed, pending a final written determination by the Panel following the hearing. At the hearing, the Company presented its plan to remedy its “public shell” determination and for future compliance with all other applicable Nasdaq listing requirements. We intend to continue to work with Nasdaq to try to find an acceptable manner in which our ADRs can remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in that effort, or that in the future we will continue to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, including, without limitation, bid price, stockholders’ equity and/or market value of listed securities minimum requirements. Additionally, our efforts to continue to meet the listing requirements may be limited by current market conditions, including volatility in the market. If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, our ADRs may be traded over-the-counter on the OTC Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets.” These alternative markets, however, are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, the NASDAQ Capital Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the NASDAQ markets, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our ADRs. If our ADRs are delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, there may be a limited market for our ADRs, trading in our ADRs may become more difficult and our ADR price could decrease even further. In addition, if our ADRs are delisted, our ability to raise additional capital may be impaired. In addition, our ADRs may become subject to penny stock rules. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We presently qualify for an exemption from the penny stock rules, as our ADRs are quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. However, if we were delisted, our ADRs would become subject to the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. If our ADRs were considered penny stock, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our ADRs and the ability of our shareholders to sell their ADRs in the secondary market would be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our ADRs would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future. Holders of our ordinary shares or ADRs who are US citizens or residents may be required to pay additional income taxes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for certain tax years. If we are classified as a PFIC, a US holder of our ordinary shares or ADRs representing our ordinary shares will be subject to special federal income tax rules that determine the amount of federal income tax imposed on income derived with respect to the PFIC shares. We will be a PFIC if either 75% or more of our gross income in a tax year is passive income or the average percentage of our assets (by value) that produce or are held for the production of passive income in a tax year is at least 50%. The risk that we will be classified as a PFIC arises because cash balances, even if held as working capital, are considered to be assets that produce passive income. Therefore, any determination of PFIC status will depend upon the sources of our income and the relative values of passive and non-passive assets, including goodwill. A determination as to a corporation’s status as a PFIC must be made annually. We believe that we were likely not a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2008. However, we believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. Although such a determination is fundamentally factual in nature and generally cannot be made until the close of the applicable taxable year, based on our current operations, we believe that we may be classified as a PFIC in the 2009 taxable year and possibly in subsequent years. Although we may not be a PFIC in any one year, the PFIC taint remains with respect to those years in which we were or are a PFIC and the special PFIC taxation regime will continue to apply. In view of the complexity of the issues regarding our treatment as a PFIC, US shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our status as a PFIC. For further discussion of tax consequences of being a PFIC, see “US Federal Income Tax Considerations - Tax Consequences If We Are A Passive Foreign Investment Company,” below. 14 Provisions of Israeli corporate law may delay, prevent or affect a potential acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets and thereby depressing the price of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in the State of Israel. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers. It requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law may delay or prevent an acquisition, or make it less desirable to a potential acquirer and therefore depress the price of our shares. Further, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. Israeli corporate law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of such acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company. This rule does not apply if there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, Israeli corporate law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser's shareholdings would entitle the purchaser to over 45% of the shares in the company, unless there is a shareholder with 45% or more of the shares in the company. These requirements do not apply if, in general, the acquisition (1) was made in a private placement that received the approval of the company’s shareholders; (2) was from a 25% or greater shareholder of the company which resulted in the purchaser becoming a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, or (3) was from a 45% or greater shareholder of the company which resulted in the acquirer becoming a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. These rules do not apply if the acquisition is made by way of a merger. Regulations promulgated under Israeli corporate law provide that these tender offer requirements do not apply to companies whose shares are listed for trading outside of Israel if, according to the law in the country in which the shares are traded, including the rules and regulations of the stock exchange or which the shares are traded, either: · there is a limitation on acquisition of any level of control of the company; or · the acquisition of any level of control requires the purchaser to do so by means of a tender offer to the public. Finally, in general, Israeli tax law treats specified acquisitions less favorably than does US tax law. See “Item 10. Additional Information - Taxation - Israeli Tax Considerations,” below. Our ADR holders are not shareholders and do not have shareholder rights. The Bank of New York, as depositary, executes and delivers our ADRs on our behalf. Each ADR is a certificate evidencing a specific number of ADSs. Our ADR holders will not be treated as shareholders and do not have the rights of shareholders. The depositary will be the holder of the shares underlying our ADRs. Holders of our ADRs will have ADR holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and our ADR holders, and the beneficial owners of ADRs, sets out ADR holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADRs. Our shareholders have shareholder rights. Israeli law and our Articles of Association, or Articles, govern shareholder rights. Our ADR holders do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. Shareholders are entitled to our notices of general meetings and to attend and vote at our general meetings of shareholders. At a general meeting, every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote on a show of hands. Every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote per fully paid ordinary share on a poll. This is subject to any other rights or restrictions which may be attached to any shares. Our ADR holders may instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADRs, but only if we ask the depositary to ask for their instructions. If we do not ask the depositary to ask for the instructions, our ADR holders are not entitled to receive our notices of general meeting or instruct the depositary how to vote. Our ADR holders will not be entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting unless they withdraw the ordinary shares from the depository. However, our ADR holders may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the ordinary shares. If we ask for our ADR holders’ instructions, the depositary will notify our ADR holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials and form of notice to them. The depositary will try, as far as is practical, subject to the provisions of the deposit agreement, to vote the shares as our ADR holders instruct. The depositary will not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions of the ADR holders. We cannot assure our ADR holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, there may be other circumstances in which our ADR holders may not be able to exercise voting rights. Our ADR holders do not have the same rights to receive dividends or other distributions as our shareholders. Subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to a share, the directors may determine that a dividend will be payable on a share and fix the amount, the time for payment and the method for payment (although we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future). Dividends may be paid on shares of one class but not another and at different rates for different classes. Dividends and other distributions payable to our shareholders with respect to our ordinary shares generally will be payable directly to them. Any dividends or distributions payable with respect to ordinary shares will be paid to the depositary, which has agreed to pay to our ADR holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities, after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADR holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of shares their ADRs represent. In addition, there may be certain circumstances in which the depositary may not pay to our ADR holders amounts distributed by us as a dividend or distribution. See the risk factor “– There are circumstances where it may be unlawful or impractical to make distributions to the holders of our ADRs,” below. 15 There are circumstances where it may be unlawful or impractical to make distributions to the holders of our ADRs. The deposit agreement with the depositary allows the depositary to distribute foreign currency only to those ADR holders to whom it is possible to do so. If a distribution is payable by us in New Israeli Shekels, the depositary will hold the foreign currency it cannot convert for the account of the ADR holders who have not been paid. It will not invest the foreign currency and it will not be liable for any interest. If the exchange rates fluctuate during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, our ADR holders may lose some of the value of the distribution. The depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any ADR holders. This means that our ADR holders may not receive the distributions we make on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for the depository to make such distributions available to them. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in the Middle East and in Israel may harm our operations. Our headquarters and some of our planned clinical sites and suppliers are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest, military conflicts and terrorist actions. There has been a significant increase in violence since September 2000, which has continued with varying levels of severity through to the present. This state of hostility has caused security and economic problems for Israel. To date, we do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material adverse impact on our business, but we cannot give any assurance that this will continue to be the case. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjected to an economic boycott. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. We have generated all of our revenues and hold most of our cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities in US dollars. In the past, a substantial amount of our operating expenses were in US dollars (approximately 96% in 2008), and we incurred a portion of our expenses in New Israeli Shekels and in certain other local currencies. In addition, we also pay for some of our services and supplies in the local currencies of our suppliers. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the US dollar will be devalued against the New Israeli Shekel or other currencies, and as result our financial results could be harmed if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in Israel or other countries in which services and supplies are obtained in the future. Accordingly, we may in the future enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rates of currencies. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects of inflation in Israel. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel in relation to the dollar or that the timing of any devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. It may be difficult to enforce a US judgment against us, our officers or our directors or to assert US securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, since we are incorporated in Israel, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, some of whom reside outside the US, may be difficult to obtain within the US. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and some of our directors and officers are located outside the US, any judgment obtained in the US against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the US. There is a doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act pursuant to original actions instituted in Israel. Subject to particular time limitations and provided certain conditions are met, executory judgments of a US court for monetary damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court. For more information regarding the enforceability of civil liabilities against us, our directors and our executive officers, see “Item 10. Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association - Enforceability of Civil Liabilities,” below. 16 ITEM 