ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our company is highly speculative in nature and involves an extremely high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following material risks, together with the other information contained in this report, before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have no relevant operating history; we have accumulated and working capital deficits; we are only in an initial commercialization stage with technology that is unproven on a large-scale commercial basis; and there is going concern disclosure in our independent auditors' report. Our company cut back daily operations in late 2005 and essentially ceased daily operations in May 2006. Through January 2009, we have been substantially inactive. In February 2009, we entered into a Technology License Agreement and expect our future operations will be centered around this licensed metallic lithium battery technology. Accordingly, we have no relevant operating history upon which an evaluation of our performance and prospects can be made. We are subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including, but not limited to, risks of unforeseen capital requirements, failure of market acceptance, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages as against larger and more established companies. The report of our independent auditors with respect to our financial statements included in this report includes a "going concern" qualification, indicating that our significant operating losses and deficits in working capital and stockholders' equity raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have generated no revenues over the past three years, and will not generate any meaningful revenues until after we successfully commercialize our technology to manufacture metallic lithium, of which no assurance can be given. As of December 31, 2008, we had a working capital deficit of $130,484 and an accumulated deficit of $7,647,414. Since December 31, 2008, we have continued to incur significant losses and anticipate that we may continue to incur significant losses in 2009 and beyond. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will generate meaningful revenues or achieve profitable operations. 3 The metallic lithium battery technology that we have licensed has never been utilized on a large-scale basis, and there can be no assurance that this technology will perform successfully on a large-scale commercial basis or that it will be profitable for us. All of the tests conducted to date by us with respect to our new process and technology have been proven in the laboratory only, and there can be no assurance that the same or similar results could be obtained on a large-scale commercial basis. Additionally, our ability to operate our business successfully will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including competition, cost and availability of strategic components, changes in governmental initiatives and requirements, changes in regulatory requirements, and the costs associated with commencing pilot manufacturing at a third-party site. There remains uncertainty of any market acceptance of our technology to manufacture metallic lithium. Many prospective users of metallic lithium have already committed substantial resources to other existing forms of battery technology. Our growth and future financial performance will depend on our ability to demonstrate to prospective users the technical and economic advantages of our technology to manufacture metallic lithium over alternative technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this effort. Furthermore, it is possible that competing technologies may be perceived to have, or may actually have, certain advantages over our technology or metallic lithium in general for certain industries or applications. Our technology is licensed and its patent is pending; therefore, protection of our technology is unpredictable at this time. We license our technology from the Amendola Family Trust, which has filed a patent application on the technology in its name. We own no patents ourselves. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain trade secrecy protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that the Amendola Family Trust’s pending patent application will be approved, that the Technology License Agreement between us and the Amendola Family Trust will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or superior technologies, or duplicate elements of our technology. It is possible that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents of third parties relating to metallic lithium. There can be no assurance that any license acquired under such patents would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any such contest. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us or in bringing patent suits against other parties. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our prospective working partners and collaborators, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. We have a royalty payment obligation based on sales, regardless of whether we are profitable. Pursuant to the Technology License Agreement between us and the Amendola Family Trust, we agreed to pay the licensor a royalty of (i) $1.00 per kilogram of lithium product manufactured and sold, and (ii) in the event sodium is produced out of the manufacture of lithium, $0.10 per kilogram of sodium manufactured and sold. Payment of such royalty to the Amendola Family Trust is based on our sales revenue and is not related to or contingent upon our attaining profitability or positive cash flow. As a result, such payment will adversely affect operating results and divert cash resources from use in our business, and possibly at times when our liquidity and access to funding may be limited. 4 We have a need for additional financing in the foreseeable future. During the past three years, financing for all of our activities has been provided in the form of direct equity investments and advances from our officers and directors. Our future capital requirements could vary significantly and will depend on certain factors, many of which are not within our control. These include the ongoing development and testing of our technology to manufacture metallic lithium, the nature and timing of prospective commercial projects and permits required and the availability of financing. In the battery market, we may not be able to enter into favorable business collaborations and might thus be required to seek project contracts for our own account. If such efforts were successful, we would be required to make significant expenditures on personnel and capital equipment which would require significant financing. In addition, our lack of operational experience and limited capital resources could make it difficult, if not highly unlikely, to successfully secure major projects. In such event, our business development could be limited to smaller commercial projects with significantly lower potential for profit. In addition, the expansion of our business will require the commitment of significant capital resources toward the hiring of technical and operational support personnel and the development of a manufacturing and testing facility. In the event we are presented with one or more significant projects, individually or in conjunction with collaborative working partners, we may require additional capital to take advantage of such opportunities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or, if available, that it will be on favorable terms. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our research and development programs, to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, or to license third parties to commercialize technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, stockholders will be diluted. We face competition and technical alternatives in the overall battery market. We anticipate that our primary market will be for metallic lithium batteries. We have had limited experience in manufacturing and marketing our technology and have not previously had any employees or personnel whose primary responsibilities consisted of these functions. Other participants include several large domestic and international companies and numerous small companies, many of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources and more manufacturing, marketing and sales experience than we do. In addition, as metallic lithium technology evolves, there exists the possibility that our technology may be rendered obsolete by one or more competing technologies. Any one or more of our competitors, or one or more other enterprises not presently known to us, may develop technologies which are superior to our technology. To the extent that our competitors are able to offer more cost-effective alternatives, our ability to compete could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will enter into collaborative agreements or projects utilizing our technology in the future. We propose to pursue opportunities in the battery market through collaborative joint working arrangements with companies that have a significant presence in well-established industries or markets, and that can introduce our technology to industry participants. However, neither we nor any of our prospective collaborative joint working partners have secured any project contracts. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any definitive joint project arrangements with our prospective working partners or others, or that any such definitive arrangements will be on terms and conditions that will enable us to generate profits. Furthermore, even if we are successful in obtaining one or more project awards, such projects may be curtailed or eliminated, or other problems may arise, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on senior management and other personnel to run our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our senior management, particularly Jerome I. Feldman, our Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and Steven M. Payne, our President. We do not have employment agreements with them or have key-man life insurance policies on the lives of such individuals to compensate us for the loss of any of such individuals. The loss of the services of any one or more of such persons may have a material adverse effect on our company. 5 Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain skilled scientific, management, operational and marketing personnel. Other than Messrs. Feldman and Payne, we do not currently have any employees or personnel whose responsibilities are focused primarily in these fields. We face competition for hiring such personnel from other companies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We will need to comply with government regulations, which can be costly and time-consuming. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls, including without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as amended, and the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA), which may require us, our prospective working partners or our customers to obtain permits or approvals to manufacture and utilize metallic lithium. There is no assurance that such required permits and approvals will be obtained or maintained. Furthermore, particularly in the battery market, we may be required to conduct performance and operating studies to assure government agencies that our technology does not pose environmental risks. There is no assurance that such studies, if successful, will not be more costly or time-consuming than anticipated. Further, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended, or are interpreted or enforced differently, we, our prospective working partners and/or our customers may be required to meet stricter standards of operation and/or obtain additional operating permits or approvals. There can be no assurance that we will meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to obtain such permits, or otherwise to comply with such regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are controlled by a small number of “insider” stockholders. Our directors and executive officers currently beneficially own approximately 57.9% of our outstanding common stock. Michael D. Feldman, our former Chief Executive Officer and the son of Jerome I. Feldman, our Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 16.3% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, through their collective ownership of approximately 74.2% of our outstanding common stock, if they act together, they will be able to control the voting of our shares at all meetings of stockholders and, because the common stock does not have cumulative voting rights, will be able to determine the outcome of the election of all of our directors and determine corporate and stockholder action on other matters. We have no plans to pay dividends. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock, and have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. It is likely that our common stock price will be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performances of specific companies. Announcements of new technologies and changing policies and regulations of the federal government and state governments and other external factors, as well as potential fluctuations in our financial results, may have a significant impact on the price of our stock. 6 Our charter contains some anti-takeover provisions that may inhibit a takeover. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation relating to a classified board of directors and delegation to the board of directors of rights to determine the terms of preferred stock may have the effect not only of discouraging attempts by others to buy us, but also of making it more difficult or impossible for existing stockholders to make management changes. A classified board, which is made up of directors elected for staggered terms, while promoting stability in board membership and management, also moderates the pace of any change in control of our board of directors by extending the time required to elect a majority, effectively requiring action in at least two annual meetings. The ability of our board of directors to determine the terms of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible business purchases and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to secure a majority of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None ITEM 