ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have historically had working capital shortages, even following significant financing transactions and we received an opinion from our auditors indicating a substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. We have had working capital shortages in the past and, although we raised capital totaling more than $45,800,000 (net of expenses and $4,100,000 of payments related to our 8% Debentures) since May 1, 2004, we have generated significant losses, which have impacted working capital. As of April 30, 2007, our consolidated balance sheet reflects working capital of $3,310,000. As a result of our continued operating losses and projected declining working capital balances during the year ending April 30, 2008, the auditors report included with our financial statements includes the following explanatory paragraph: “The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations and will continue to require funding from investors for working capital. This raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.” Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon raising capital through debt or equity financing and ultimately by increasing revenue and achieving profitable operations. We can offer no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to raise additional proceeds or achieve profitable operations. The consolidated financial statements located in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. Based on the amount of capital we have remaining, our current negative cash flow from operations and investing activities, we anticipate that we will continue to incur a working capital deficit unless we are able to substantially increase our revenue or reduce our expenses thereby generating positive cash flow from operations and (ultimately) operating income. Nevertheless, as a result of our fund raising activities during the year ended April 30, 2007, other anticipated cash flows and certain cost-saving measures we have instituted, we believe we have sufficient working capital to finance our anticipated operations and projected negative cash flow into our quarter ending January 31, 2008. 13 Our ability to obtain further financing when necessary is limited. We have historically financed our operating losses and cash flow deficits through private placements of our equity and debt securities. Our outstanding 13% Debentures contain significant restrictions on our ability to raise any additional capital for so long as the convertible debentures are outstanding and ultimately, our ability to finance our operations will depend on our ability to generate revenues that exceed our expenses. Although we believe we are on a path to that end, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to succeed in reaching that goal. We may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and delisting may adversely impact our ability to raise capital. During the year ended April 30, 2007, we received four notifications from Nasdaq identifying listing deficiencies, which, if not cured timely, could have resulted in our delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. While we cured these deficiencies, we continue to be subject to all of Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, including requirements for either a minimum level of stockholders’ equity or market value of listed securities and maintenance of a $1.00 per share minimum bid price. Unless circumstances change, there is a significant risk that we may not meet either of the minimum stockholders’ equity or market value of listed securities requirement at July 31, 2007, although we will not be able to confirm whether we meet certain of the requirements until later in August or early September 2007. Nevertheless, we are developing plans to deal with this situation should it occur, although we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to implement any such plans should it become necessary to do so. If we were to receive a notice from Nasdaq for failure to comply with the requirements, and if it was not cured timely, it could result in our delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to cure any future listing deficiencies or sustain compliance with all continued listing requirements. Because our financing activities are dependent to a large extent on eventual liquidity for the investors, any such delisting, if it should occur, will make future financing activities significantly more difficult, may raise liquidity issues for current investors and may place some of our existing obligations into default. We have three business segments and, for the year ended April 30, 2007, two of our three segments operated at a loss. For the years ended April 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our operating segments incurred operating losses as follows: Year ended April 30, 2007 2006 2005 Homeland security products $ (6,664,000 ) $ (5,989,000 ) $ (1,728,000 ) Security services (425,000 ) (24,000 ) — Semiconductor products and services 326,000 (5,151,000 ) (6,484,000 ) Reconciling amounts(1) (8,785,000 ) (4,499,000 ) (3,744,000 ) Total $ (15,548,000 ) $ (15,663,000 ) $ (11,956,000 ) (1) Reconciling amounts for the operating loss information includes corporate expenses consisting primarily of corporate salaries and benefits, professional and consulting fees, investor relations costs, warrant amendment expense, insurance and directors’ compensation. In January 2007, we elected to discontinue the operation of our life sciences business and put the assets and business up for sale (which was sold in June 2007). As a result, we reclassified the operations of our life sciences business as discontinued operations. Prior year information has been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation. 14 We expect that these losses (on a consolidated basis) will continue through the remainder of our year ending April 30, 2008. As described in the next risk factor, unless we are able to develop and sell new products profitably, we may be unable to remain competitive and it is likely that our losses and negative cash flow will continue. Unless we are able to develop and sell our products profitably, we may be unable to remain competitive, furthering the likelihood that our losses and negative cash flow will continue. Our ability to generate positive cash flow, additional revenues, and ultimately net income, is dependent upon the success of our homeland security products, security services and semiconductor operations. While we reported significant revenue and operating income growth in our semiconductor operations for the year ended April 30, 2007, many of our top semiconductor customers have experienced weakened business results in recent quarters. In addition, some customers have reported inventory buildup in reclaim and/or test products. As a result of these two factors, we have recently seen a slowdown in orders of reclaim and test materials, which has had a negative impact on our operations. The slowdown will have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows for our quarter ending July 31, 2007, which we expect to reflect a significant reduction in revenue (as compared to the previous sequential quarter) and the reporting of an operating loss for that segment. In order to minimize the effect of the slowdown, we have implemented many cost cutting procedures and will continue to do so. It is unclear as to when the market will rebound but we believe that this is a relatively short-term phenomenon and are hopeful that we will begin to see a recovery during our quarter ending October 31, 2007. We continue to monitor the situation closely and while we believe that we will see improving financial results in this operating segment (over the long-term), we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to regain or sustain operating profitability in future periods. We have had limited success in marketing our homeland security products, having sold to date only fifteen units of our panel-mounted IMS-based product. Although we continue to market products based on our IMS technology, we are not doing so aggressively. We are attempting to resolve certain issues that we confronted with our earlier version of the panel-mounted IMS-based product. Consequently, we cannot offer any assurance that our marketing efforts will result in any additional sales or that additional sales would result in significant revenues to us. While we are considering the development of other IMS-based products (such as the hand-held ‘sniffer’ discussed above), we do not have the capital resources necessary to develop or manufacture these other products. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We have issued securities during the years ended April 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and subsequently which has resulted (and will in the future when warrant exercises or conversions occur) in dilution to our existing shareholders. This was accomplished to provide necessary working capital or obtain assets and services. We will likely issue more securities to raise additional capital or to obtain other services or assets, any of which may result in substantial additional dilution. During the course of the last three fiscal years, we have raised in excess of $45,800,000 (net of expenses and $4,100,000 of payments related to our 8% Debentures) to finance our business operations and acquisitions. During that period and subsequently, we have also issued a number of shares, options, and warrants, to acquire services and assets from third parties and pursuant to our stock option plans. We expect to raise additional financing during our year ending April 30, 2008 if we can do so on terms that we believe to be appropriate, given our financial condition and other circumstances. We also expect to issue additional shares, options, and warrants where we can to obtain necessary services. Some of the issuances we have made in the past and are likely to make in the future have been issued at prices below market and (as is frequently the case with declining market prices) at prices below our historical market prices. Consequently, our shareholders have suffered dilution in the value of their shares and can expect that we 15 will be issuing additional securities on similar terms. Further dilution can be expected to occur when our outstanding options and warrants are exercised or debentures are converted at prices below the market. Two former holders of a portion of the then outstanding 8% Debentures have asserted that a default existed. Two entities who held 8% Debentures (which have been paid in full as of February 1, 2007) have previously asserted that the issuance of the 13% Debentures constituted a default (due to a potential variable conversion provision contained within the 13% Debentures which gives the 13% Debenture holder the right to convert the 13% Debentures into common stock at the lower of $5.00 or at a discount to market, subject to certain limitations and as defined) under the 8% Debentures. We have contested that allegation (based on such clause not surviving the final agreement and a defense of in pari delicto), and will defend it in court if necessary. Although we have not had any further communication from the former holders regarding this issue other than the allegation of default, any litigation would be time consuming and expensive and, although we believe that we have significant grounds to contest the existence of any default, we cannot be assured of success. If they were to prove a default, we could be liable for 130% of the principal amount of their 8% Debentures on the closing date of the 13% Debenture transaction (an amount of approximately $1,200,000, including accrued interest). Accounting charges resulting from our issuance of the 13% Debentures may lead to significant non-cash charges which would adversely impact future interest expense, net income and earnings per share and may also lead to future volatility in our financial statement components. As a result of the issuance of the 13% Debentures, we will be required to record significant non-cash interest charges over the life of the 13% Debentures (in addition to interest expense relating to the 13% interest rate borne by the 13% Debentures which will be paid in cash or shares of our common stock, at our option). This will likely result in a significant adverse impact to future net income and earnings per share and will likely introduce additional volatility to our future operating results. Historically we depended upon few customers for a significant portion of our revenues and our business could have been materially and adversely affected if we lost any one of those customers. We have been dependent on a few significant customers who have purchased our products or services in amounts greater than 10% of our consolidated revenues. A decision by any significant customer to substantially decrease or delay purchases from us or an inability to collect significant amounts owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We realized increased expenses, reduced revenues and longer than anticipated delays in integrating past business acquisitions into our operations, and we may face similar difficulties with future acquisitions as well. We experienced increased costs and delays in integrating the operations of the business and assets we acquired from EnCompass Materials Group, Ltd. (“EMG”) in June 2004, and we also realized revenues that were significantly reduced from that which we had anticipated which adversely affected the operations of our semiconductor division. Regardless of the extent of our planning, we may recognize increased costs and delays, and reduced revenues, when integrating future business acquisitions into our business operations and strategy. While we believe that we have and will continue to plan for integration of acquired business operations to the best of our ability, we cannot offer any assurance that any or all such efforts will proceed as anticipated. 16 If demand for any of our products grows suddenly, we may lack the resources to meet demand or we may be required to increase our capital spending significantly. If we are able to develop and market our products successfully, we may experience periods of rapid growth that place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources. Through our research and development efforts we are also attempting to develop additional products and lines of business. Our ability to manage growth effectively, particularly given our increasing scope of operations, will require us to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems, and will require us to develop the management skills of our personnel and to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively manage growth could increase our costs of operations and reduce our margins and liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are dependent upon our key personnel for our future success, if we fail to retain or attract key personnel, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel and consultants, including Christopher Toffales, our Chairman of the Board. Currently Mr. Toffales is covered by a two-year employment agreement that is renewable on an annual basis. We believe that our future success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel for our operations. The failure to attract or retain such persons could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The reorganization of our Company and the changes in our senior management may result in a disruption of operations or have adverse impacts on our business. As part of the our management reorganization in February 2007, James E. Alexander and Boris Rubizhevsky, resigned from their positions as officers and directors; Lindsay A Gardner, a vice president, resigned from her position as a director and later as vice president. Both Mr. Alexander and Mr. Rubizhevsky were founding members of Isonics and actively managed our operations since formation, and Ms. Gardner had been a director of Isonics since 1993. We terminated several other employees and officers during that period of time. The departure of these directors and officers and the introduction of new officers and directors to fill their positions may disrupt our operations and adversely effect our business operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, which would reduce our competitive advantage. We rely primarily on a combination of patents and patent applications, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our technology, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and products is difficult. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our rights to information, materials and intellectual property that we regard as proprietary and that are protected under the laws of the United States. We may not be able to protect our proprietary interests, or our competitors may independently develop similar technology or intellectual property. If either one of these situations occurs, we may lose existing customers and our business may suffer. The validity of any of the patents licensed to us, or that may in the future be owned by us, may not be upheld if challenged by others in litigation. Further, our products or technologies, even if covered by our patents, may infringe upon patents owned by others. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against us, or any of our licensors, for infringement, in suits by us against others for infringement, or in suits contesting the validity of a patent. Any such proceeding may be protracted. In any suit contesting the validity of a patent, the patent being contested would be entitled to a presumption of validity 17 and the contesting party would be required to demonstrate invalidity of such patent by clear and convincing evidence. If the outcome of any such litigation were adverse to our interests, our liquidity and business operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face technological change and intense competition both domestically and internationally which may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The markets for our homeland security and semiconductor products and services are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and a continuing process of development. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and market products that meet changing customer and technological needs on a cost effective and timely basis. If we fail to remain competitive by anticipating the needs of our customers and our customers contract with other suppliers, our revenues and resulting cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Our semiconductor products and services segment is dependent on the performance of several key pieces of equipment. If any of these items were not to perform to their ability or were taken out of service for any significant amount of time, our ability to produce product would be severely compromised. The performance of our semiconductor products and services segment is directly tied to the performance of several key pieces of equipment, which are typically intricate and expensive. The average time between failures is typically long and the corresponding time for repair is typically short; as a result, most of the time the issues are routine and are quickly repaired. However, this is not always the case and there have been times in the past when critical tools have been out of service for a period of time, which had a negative impact on revenues in the short term. Further, due to our historical working capital shortages and the significant historical net losses, we are unable to purchase the necessary equipment redundancy. Any future equipment issues could have a significant impact on our ability to produce and ship the products to our customers, thereby potentially impacting both our revenues and related cash flows. We could be subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local agencies, including laws that impose liability without fault, which could produce working capital shortages and lessen shareholders’ equity. Our IMS-based products use radioactive sources. As a result, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during manufacturing processes. Regulations that become applicable to our operations in the future could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with governmental regulations. Historically, our costs of compliance with environmental regulations have not been significant because we use licensed manufacturers in connection with the manufacture of these products. We are controlled by our Board of Directors; individual purchasers of our shares will have little ability to elect directors or control our management. Our shares are widely-held, and our management beneficially owns our securities in an amount less than 10% of the outstanding votes at any shareholders’ meeting. Nevertheless, it is likely that the Board of Directors will be able to influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets, and to control our management and affairs. Such control may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation or takeover or other business combination involving us or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. 18 We risk exposing ourselves to an above-policy limit product liability claim, which could adversely affect our working capital, shareholders’ equity and profitability. The sale and use of explosive and chemical detection products may expose us to potential liability risks that are inherent with the operation of these types of products (including, but not limited to failed detection). We currently have product liability insurance; however, there is a risk that our insurance would not cover completely or would fail to cover a claim, in which case we may not have the financial resources to satisfy such claims, and the payment of claims would require us to use funds that are otherwise needed to conduct our business and make our products. Our common stock is vulnerable to pricing and purchasing actions that are beyond our control and, therefore, persons acquiring or holding our shares or warrants may be unable to resell their shares at a profit as a result of this volatility. The trading price of our securities has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, our announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, delays in our product development and marketing, and other events and factors over which we have no influence or control. The securities markets themselves have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries, public concern as to the safety of products containing radioactive compounds, economic and other external factors, all affect the market price of our securities. In addition, the realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a significant and adverse impact on such market prices. SEC penny stock regulations may limit the ability to trade our securities. Although our common stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock has in the past been subject to additional disclosure requirements for penny stocks mandated by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990. The SEC Regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that is not traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. We have, at times in the past, been included within the SEC Rule 3a-51 definition of a penny stock. When our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock,” trading is covered by Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for non-Nasdaq and non-national securities exchange listed securities, adding a significant amount of broker-dealer compliance to transactions in penny stocks. Many brokers are unwilling to engage in transactions in penny stocks and, therefore, if we lose our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the marketability of our securities may weaken significantly. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to meet the Nasdaq requirements to maintain our Capital Market listing, or that if we do, a stable trading market will develop for our stock or our warrants. See “We may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and delisting may adversely impact our ability to raise capital” for additional risk factors associated with potential Nasdaq listing deficiencies. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price has declined from a price of approximately $24.00 (adjusted for the reverse split) per share at the beginning of 2005 to prices of less than $1.50 (adjusted for the reverse split) at various times since May 2006. Our stock price may decline further as a result of future sales of our shares, the perception that such sales may occur, our financial or operational performance, or other reasons. As of July 20, 2007, approximately 940,000 shares of common stock held by existing stockholders constitute “restricted shares” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The restricted shares may only be sold if they are 19 registered under the Securities Act, or sold under Rule 144, or another exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Approximately 90% of the restricted shares of our common stock are either eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 or have been registered under the Securities Act for resale by the holders. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing, or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may cause the stock’s market price to decline. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We presently intend to retain our earnings, if any, to fund development and growth of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, the terms of the 13% Debentures contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. Outstanding debentures, options and warrants may make it difficult for us to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms. We have a significant amount of securities outstanding that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, in some cases at prices below the market price for our shares. The existence of these convertible or exercisable securities have in the past and may in the future make it more difficult for us to raise any further financing because any new investors will perceive that the securities offer a risk of substantial potential future dilution. In addition, the continuously adjustable conversion price feature of our 13% Debentures, and any similar features of any debentures we may subsequently issue, could require us to issue a large number of shares, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may encourage investors to make short sales of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock and adversely impact our ability to raise capital when necessary. If we fail to effect and maintain registration of the common stock issued or issuable pursuant to conversion of our convertible debentures, or certain of our outstanding common stock warrants, we may be obligated to pay the investors of those securities liquidated damages. We have various obligations to file and obtain the effectiveness of certain registration statements which include certain outstanding common stock and common stock underlying outstanding convertible debentures and common stock warrants. Once effective, the prospectus contained within a registration statement can only be used for a period of time as specified by statute without there being a post-effective amendment filed that has become effective under the Securities Act of 1933. If we are unable to meet these obligations, we may be obligated to pay liquidated damages of 1% of the principal amount of the 13% Debentures outstanding per month (up to $180,000 per month). We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to maintain the currency of the information contained in a prospectus or to obtain the effectiveness of any registration statement or post-effective amendments that we may file. As a public company, we are subject to a significant amount of regulation. In the past we have received requests for information from the Securities and Exchange Commission and from Nasdaq. Any such inquiry or investigation that may result may adversely affect the market for our stock or our Company. Regulators of public companies such as Isonics have the authority to commence inquiries and investigations where the regulators have concerns. The investigations, while involving the company, may not have anything to do with actions taken by the company or our failure to act. Furthermore, the regulators may not inform us when the issues they were addressing are resolved. From October 2004 20 through February 2005, both Nasdaq and the SEC requested documents from us with respect to inquiries they were undertaking (related primarily to questions regarding our press releases, public relations advisors, certain other disclosures that were made publicly and the termination of Grant Thornton LLP as our independent auditor). We also met with representatives of Nasdaq to discuss issues related to market activity, press announcements, SEC filings, status of our business and other issues. We provided information, which we believe to be responsive to all of the questions posed in the Nasdaq inquiry and to the SEC. We have not received any requests for additional information from either the SEC or Nasdaq relating to those earlier inquiries since February 2005 and while we believe these issues are behind us, if any action resulted from these inquiries in the future, it may adversely impact us, and our ability to carry on our business. We failed to provide necessary funding to SenseIt to make the most recent development payment to Lucent and, as a result, Lucent could terminate the agreement and our investment in SenseIt would be impaired. Even if we are able to make the development payment we have missed or future development payments when due, there is no guarantee that the development activity will yield technologically relevant or commercially viable products. SenseIt failed to make the development payment due to Lucent on July 16, 2007. SenseIt was unable to make this payment because we were unable to provide adequate funding to SenseIt. Consequently, Lucent may in its discretion take steps to terminate the agreement and all licenses granted to us thereunder or cease working on the project and then assess SenseIt a “start-up” fee if funding was to resume. On July 26, 2007, we received official notification from Lucent that we failed to make the $1,000,000 payment to Lucent by July 16, 2007 and that in the event such non-payment continues for more than ten days, Lucent may at is discretion, suspend work on the development project. Because of our continuing working capital shortages, we may not be able to provide SenseIt funding for future (or current) development payments to Lucent, and SenseIt may not be able to find third-party investors to provide it the necessary capital. If the Lucent agreement were to be canceled, our investment in SenseIt would be impaired. Lastly, although we are hopeful of a positive outcome, we can offer no assurance that the development activity underway with Lucent and SenseIt will yield technologically relevant or commercially viable products. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control, which could delay or prevent a takeover. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights, and preferences, as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors may, without shareholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our control, although we do not currently intend to issue any additional series of our preferred stock. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors to the full extent permitted by California law, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and products. Our Bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors to the full extent permitted by California law, our state of incorporation. We may be required to pay judgments, fines, and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which such officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our products, thereby affecting our ability to attain profitability. This could cause our stock price to drop. 21 We will need to make substantial financial and man-power investments in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and requires auditors to attest to that assessment. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will require us to include this assessment and attestation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K commencing with the annual report for our fiscal year ending April 30, 2008. We will incur significant increased costs in implementing and responding to these requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, information systems and resources. We may have to invest in additional accounting and software systems. We may be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting and advisory services. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when we are required to, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment (if applicable for the fiscal year ending April 30, 2008), we may be required to change our internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements causing our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 