Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Consolidated Balance Sheets December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income Years ended December 28, 2007, December 29, 2006, and December 30, 2005 1 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity Years ended December 28, 2007, December 29, 2006, and December 30, 2005 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 28, 2007, December 29, 2006, and December 30, 2005 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Summary URS is a leading international provider of engineering, construction and technical services. We offer a broad range of program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, operations and maintenance, and decommissioning and closure services to public agencies and private sector clients around the world. We also are a major U.S. federal government contractor in the areas of systems engineering and technical assistance, and operations and maintenance. We have approximately 56,000 employees in a global network of offices and contract specific job sites in more than 30 countries. In November 2007, we acquired Washington Group International, Inc. (“WGI”), a provider of program management, engineering, construction and construction management, operations and maintenance, and decommissioning and closure services with more than 25,000 employees worldwide. The operations of WGI have become the Washington Division of URS Corporation. The acquisition has enhanced our ability to provide integrated engineering and construction services throughout the project life cycle—from planning, design and engineering through construction to operations and maintenance. The acquisition also enhanced our capabilities and ability to compete in the power and nuclear management markets, as well as in the transportation, mining, defense and industrial infrastructure and process markets. As a result of the acquisition of WGI, we now provide services through three operating divisions: the URS Division, the EG&G Division and our new Washington Division. Our URS Division provides a comprehensive range of professional program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, and operations and maintenance services to various government agencies and departments in the U.S. and internationally, as well as to private industry clients. Our EG&G Division provides program management, planning, systems engineering and technical assistance, operations and maintenance services to various U.S. federal government agencies, primarily the Departments of Defense (“DOD”) and Homeland Security(“DHS”). Our Washington Division provides program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, operations and maintenance, and decommissioning and closure services to government agencies and departments in the U.S. and internationally, as well as to private sector clients. For information on our business by segment and geographic regions, please refer to Note 10, “Segment and Related Information” to our “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which is included under Item 8 of this report and incorporated into this Item by reference. Clients, Services and Markets We market our services to a broad range of domestic and international clients, including U.S. federal government agencies, state and local government agencies, private industry, and international entities through a global network of offices and contract-specific job sites across the U.S. in more than 30 foreign countries. We focus our expertise on 11 key markets: transportation, power, environmental, nuclear management, industrial infrastructure and process, facilities, water/wastewater, mining, homeland security, installations and logistics, and defense systems. The following graphic and chart summarizes our percent of revenues, representative services and representative markets by client type for the year ended December 28, 2007. Client Types % of Revenues Representative Services Representative Markets Federal Government 41% · Program Management · Planning, Design and Engineering · Systems Engineering andTechnical Assistance · Construction and Construction Management · Operations and Maintenance · Decommissioning and Closure · Homeland Security · Defense Systems · Installations and Logistics · Environmental · Nuclear Management · Facilities · Transportation State and Local Government 21% · Program Management · Planning, Design and Engineering · Construction and Construction Management · Operations and Maintenance · Transportation · Facilities · Homeland Security · Environmental · Water/Wastewater Private Industry 27% · Program Management · Planning, Design and Engineering · Construction and Construction Management · Operations and Maintenance · Decommissioning and Closure · Power · Environmental · Nuclear Management · Industrial Infrastructureand Process · Facilities · Water/Wastewater · Mining International 11% · Program Management · Planning, Design and Engineering · Construction and Construction Management · Operations and Maintenance · Decommissioning and Closure · Transportation · Power · Facilities · Environmental · Industrial Infrastructure and Process · Water/Wastewater · Mining · Homeland Security · Defense Systems 3 Clients The following table summarizes the primary client types served by our three divisions for the year ended December 28, 2007. Client Types URS Division EG&G Division Washington Division U.S. Federal Government ü ü ü State and Local Government ü — ü Private Industry ü — ü International ü — ü ü a primary client type for the division. — not a primary client type for the division. U.S. Federal Government. As a major contractor to the U.S. federal government, we serve a wide variety of government departments and agencies. These include the DOD, DHS, Department of Energy (“DOE”), Justice, Treasury, the Environmental Protection Agency, NASA, the United States Postal Service and the General Services Administration. Following a steady decline in uniformed and civilian personnel levels throughout the 1990s, the DOD has used contractors for large, multi-service government outsourcing contracts in support of military operations. Our revenues from U.S. federal government agencies exclude revenues arising from federal grants or matching funds allocated to and passed through state and local government agencies. We serve U.S. federal government clients through each of our divisions. State and Local Government. Our state and local government agency clients include local municipalities, community planning boards, state and municipal departments of transportation and public works, transit authorities, water and wastewater authorities, environmental protection agencies, school boards and authorities, judiciary agencies, public hospitals, ports and harbors, and airport authorities. In the U.S., substantially all spending for infrastructure — transportation networks, public buildings and water/wastewater systems –– is coordinated through these agencies. Our state and local government revenues include those originating from federal grants or matching funds provided to state and local government agencies. Our state and local government clients are primarily served by our URS and Washington Divisions. Private Industry. Many of our private industry clients are Fortune 500 companies, companies with international operations and companies from a broad range of industries, including automotive, chemical, consumer products, pharmaceutical manufacturing, mining, power, oil and gas, and pipelines. Over the past several years, many of these companies have reduced the number of service providers they use, selecting larger, multi-service contractors with international operations in order to control overhead costs. Our private industry clients are served primarily by our URS and Washington Divisions. 4 International. The focus of our international business is to provide a range of services to our multinational private industry clients and foreign governmental agencies in the Americas (outside the U.S.), Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Although the EG&G Division performs defense-related work outside of the U.S., our international client base is primarily served by our URS and Washington Divisions. Services We provide program management, planning, design and engineering, systems engineering and technical assistance, construction and construction management, operations and maintenance, and decommissioning and closure services to the U.S. federal government, state and local government agencies, as well as to private industry and international clients. These services are delivered through a network of offices and contract-specific job sites. Although we are typically the prime contractor, in some cases, we provide services as a subcontractor or through joint ventures or partnership agreements with other service providers. The following table summarizes the services provided by our URS, EG&G and Washington Divisions for the year ended December 28, 2007. Services URS Division EG&G Division Washington Division Program Management ü ü ü Planning, Design and Engineering ü ü ü Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance — ü — Construction and Construction Management ü ü ü Operations and Maintenance ü ü ü Decommissioning and Closure ü ü ü ü the division provides the listed service. — the division does not provide the listed service. Program Management. We provide the technical and administrative services required to manage, coordinate and integrate the multiple and concurrent assignments that comprise a large program — from concept through completion. For large military programs, which typically involve naval, ground, vessel and airborne platforms, our program management services include logistics planning, acquisition management, risk management of weapons systems, safety management and subcontractor management. We also provide program management services for large capital improvement programs, which include planning, coordination, schedule and cost control, and design, construction and commissioning oversight. Planning, Design and Engineering. The planning process is typically used to develop a blueprint or overall scheme for a project. Based on the project requirements identified during the planning process, detailed engineering drawings and calculations are developed, which may include material specifications, construction cost estimates and schedules. Our planning, design and engineering services include the following: · Master planning; · Land-use planning; · Transportation planning; · Technical and economic feasibility studies; · Environmental impact assessments; · Project development/design; · Permitting, to ensure compliance with applicable regulations; · Quality assurance and validation; 5 · Integrated safety management and analysis; · Alternative design analysis; · Conceptual and final design documents; · Technical specifications; and · Process engineering and design. We provide planning, design and engineering services for the construction of new transportation projects and for the renovation and expansion of existing transportation infrastructure, including bridges, highways, roads, airports, mass transit systems and railroads, and ports and harbors. We also plan and design many types of facilities, such as schools, courthouses and hospitals; power generation, industrial and manufacturing facilities; waste treatment and disposal facilities; water supply and conveyance systems and wastewater treatment plants; and corporate offices and retail outlets. Our planning, design and engineering capabilities also support homeland defense and global threat reduction programs; hazardous and radioactive waste clean-up activities at government sites and facilities; and environmental assessment, due diligence and permitting at government, commercial and industrial facilities. We also provide planning, design and engineering support to U.S. federal government clients for major research and development projects, as well as for technology development and deployment. Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance. We provide a broad range of systems engineering and technical assistance to all branches of the U.S. military for the design and development of new weapons systems and the modernization of aging weapons systems. We have the expertise to support a wide range of platforms including aircraft and helicopters, tracked and wheeled vehicles, ships and submarines, shelters and ground support equipment. Representative systems engineering and technical assistance services include: · Defining operational requirements and developing specifications for new weapons systems; · Reviewing hardware and software design data; and · Developing engineering documentation for these systems. We support a number of activities including technology insertion, system modification, installation of new systems/equipment, design of critical data packages, and configuration management. Construction and Construction Management Services. We provide construction contracting and construction management services for projects involving transportation, environmental and waste management, power generation and transmission, industrial and manufacturing facilities, water resources and wastewater treatment, government building and facilities and mining projects. As a contractor, we are responsible for the construction and completion of a project in accordance with its specifications and contracting terms. In this capacity, we often manage the procurement of materials, equipment and supplies; directly supervise craft labor; and manage and coordinate subcontractors. Depending on the project, we may function as the primary contractor or as a subcontractor to another firm. Our services typically include: · Procuring specified materials and equipment; · Managing project logistics; · Supervising and completing physical construction; · Managing project milestone and completion schedules; · Managing project cost controls and accounting; · Negotiating and expediting change orders; · Administering job site safety, security and quality control programs; and 6 · Preparing and delivering as-built drawings. As a construction manager, we serve as the client’s representative to ensure compliance with design specifications and contract terms. In performing these services, we may purchase equipment and materials on behalf of the client; monitor the progress, cost and quality of construction projects in process and oversee and coordinate the activities of construction contractors, providing a variety of services, including: · Contract administration; · Change order management; · Cost and schedule management; · Safety program and performance monitoring; · Inspection; · Quality control and quality assurance; · Document control; and · Claims and dispute resolution. Operations and Maintenance. We provide operations and maintenance services in support of large military installations and operations, and hazardous facilities, as well as for transportation systems, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and mining operations. Our services include: · Management of military base logistics including overseeing the operation of government warehousing and distribution centers, as well as government property and asset management; · Maintenance, modification, overhaul and life service extension services for military vehicles, vessels and aircraft; · Management, maintenance and operation of chemical agent and chemical weapons disposal systems; · Comprehensive military flight training services; · Development and maintenance of high security systems; · Management of high-risk, technically complex chemical and nuclear processing facilities; · Integrated facilities management for industrial and manufacturing facilities; · Toll road, light rail and airport operations; · Mine operations and maintenance; and · Other miscellaneous services such as staffing, repair, renovation, predictive and preventive maintenance, and health and safety services. Decommissioning and Closure. We provide decommissioning and closure services for nuclear power plants, nuclear research and test facilities, production sites and laboratories. Many of these facilities have been highly contaminated and contain significant inventories of chemical and nuclear materials. We also provide decommissioning and closure services for the DOD at chemical weapons depots and for military installations under the DOD’s Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) program, as well as for industrial facilities and mining operations. Our services include: · Planning, scoping surveys and cost estimating; 7 · Due diligence and permitting; · Environmental remediation; · Hazardous chemical and nuclear waste stabilization treatment and disposition; · Construction/demolition management; and · Redevelopment and reuse. Markets We focus our expertise on 11 key markets: transportation, power, environmental, nuclear management, industrial infrastructure and process, facilities, water/wastewater, mining, homeland security, installations and logistics, and defense systems. Our domestic and international network of offices allows us to perform business development and sales activities on a localized basis. In addition, for large-scale projects and multinational clients, we coordinate national and international marketing efforts on a company-wide basis. The following table summarizes the markets we served during the year ended December 28, 2007; Markets URS Division EG&G Division Washington Division Transportation ü — ü Power ü — ü Environmental ü — ü Nuclear Management ü — ü Industrial Infrastructure and Process — — ü Facilities ü — ü Water/Wastewater ü — ü Mining ü — ü Homeland Security ü ü ü Installations and Logistics ü ü — Defense Systems — ü ü ü the division serves this market. — the division does not serve this market. Transportation We provide a full range of program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, and operations and maintenance services for surface transportation, air transportation, rail transportation, and ports and harbors projects as described below. Surface Transportation. We provide the full range of services required to plan, design, construct, operate and maintain all types of surface transportation systems and networks, including highways, interchanges, bridges, tunnels and toll road facilities. Our expertise also includes the planning and design, and operations and maintenance of intelligent transportation systems, such as traffic management centers. On construction assignments, we typically serve as the general contractor or as a joint venture partner with other contractors. 8 Air Transportation. We provide comprehensive services for the development of new airports and the modernization and expansion of existing facilities: including airport terminals, hangars and air cargo buildings, air traffic control towers, runways and taxiways, and related airport infrastructure such as roadways, parking garages and people movers. We also specialize in baggage, communications and aircraft fueling systems. We have completed projects at both general aviation and large-hub international airports throughout the world. In the area of airport security, we assist airport authorities and owners, and airline carriers in all aspects of security-related projects. For example, we provide a full range of planning, design, engineering, construction management, and operations and maintenance services for airport security systems, including baggage screening and perimeter access control systems. We also provide operations and maintenance service for airports, including staffing and technical support to airport owners and operators. Rail Transportation. We provide program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, and operations and maintenance services to freight and passenger railroads and urban mass transit agencies. We have completed projects involving light rail, subways, commuter/intercity railroads, heavy rail and high-speed rail systems, as well as people movers and bus rapid transit systems. These capabilities are complemented by our specialized expertise in rail transportation structures, including terminals, stations, multimodal facilities, parking facilities, bridges and tunnels, as well as power, signals and communications systems. Ports and Harbors. We provide program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management services to waterfront property ownerships, ports and harbors authorities, port tenants, waterfront cities and counties, construction contractors and the DOD for container terminals, liquid and dry bulk terminals, storage facilities, piers, wharves, seawalls and slope protection, recreational marinas and small craft harbors. We also provide environmental and geotechnical services for waterfront projects, as well as specialized services in port security and Tsunami modeling. Power We plan, design, engineer, construct, retrofit and maintain a wide range of types of power-generating facilities, as well as the systems that transmit and distribute electricity. Our services include planning, siting and licensing, permitting, engineering, procurement, construction, facility start-up, operations and maintenance, upgrades and modifications, and decommissioning and closure. We provide these services to utilities, industrial co-generators, independent power producers, original equipment manufacturers and government entities. Our project experience includes fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, hydropower, and alternative and renewable energy sources, including biomass, geothermal, solar energy and wind systems. We also specialize in the development and installation of clean air technologies that reduce sulfur dioxide, sulfur trioxide, mercury and other harmful emissions at both new and existing fossil fuel power plants. Environmental We provide a variety of engineering and environmental services related to protecting, preserving and restoring air, water and soil quality for U.S. federal government, state and local government agencies, and commercial and industrial clients in the private sector. Our services include environmental impact assessments, permitting and regulatory compliance, environmental management and pollution control, waste management, remediation design, program management, construction and construction management, demolition and environmental cleanup. We provide air quality monitoring and modeling and design air emissions control systems. We also provide comprehensive services related to the identification, characterization and remediation of hazardous waste sites. 9 Nuclear Management We provide a broad range of nuclear management services to the DOE, involving the management of the nation’s nuclear weapons stockpile, the environmental cleanup and remediation of the chemical and radiological legacy of the Cold War, and the development of new energy technologies. Our services include technical consulting, program management, planning, design, engineering, construction and construction management, operations and maintenance, and decommissioning and closure. We operate complex, high-hazard facilities involved in the storage, deactivation, decommissioning and disposal of nuclear weapons stockpiles and other nuclear materials. In addition, we provide safety analyses for high-hazard facilities and licensing services for DOE sites, as well as to the DOD, NASA and the commercial nuclear industry. Industrial Infrastructure and Process We provide planning, engineering, process design, and construction and construction management services for new industrial and commercial infrastructure and process facilities, as well as for the expansion and upgrade of existing facilities. We serve a diverse roster of clients in the chemical/pharmaceutical, manufacturing, oil and gas, and pipeline sectors. Our work in the oil and gas and pipeline sectors involves refineries, processing facilities, gas and liquid pipelines and storage facilities. In the chemical/pharmaceutical market, we provide services for biotechnology, petrochemical, specialty chemical and polymer facilities. Our work for the manufacturing sector involves automotive, food and beverage, pulp and paper, and light manufacturing facilities. We also provide facility management services to industrial clients, including building maintenance, waste management, health and safety, and security services. Facilities We provide program management, planning, architectural design, engineering, and construction and construction management services for new buildings and the rehabilitation and expansion of existing facilities. Our work involves a broad range of building types, including education, judicial, correctional, health care, retail, sports, recreational, industrial, manufacturing, research and office facilities. We also provide historic preservation, adaptive reuse and seismic upgrade services. Water/Wastewater We provide services for the planning, design, engineering, and construction and construction management of all types of water/wastewater treatment facilities and systems. Services are provided for new and expanded water supply, storage, distribution and treatment systems; municipal wastewater treatment and sewer systems; levees: watershed, storm water management and flood control systems; and coastal restoration. We also provide planning, design, construction and construction management, seismic retrofit services for dams, reservoirs, impoundments, navigation locks and hydraulic structures. Mining We plan, design, develop and operate mines and metal and mineral processing facilities worldwide. Our expertise covers conceptual design and cost analysis in the feasibility stage; environmental and social management, mine site engineering and construction in the development stage; and mine operations and maintenance during production. In addition, we provide engineering, environmental and construction services for mine closure and reclamation. We provide these services for a variety of mine types, including energy fuels, base and precious metals, and industrial minerals. Homeland Security We provide a variety of services to the DHS, DOD, and other federal departments and state and local government agencies in support of homeland security activities. This work includes conducting threat assessments of public facilities, planning and conducting emergency preparedness exercises, and designing force protection systems and security systems. We also develop emergency response strategies and conduct first responder training for the military and other federal, state and local government agencies. 10 Our global threat reduction services focus on the elimination and dismantlement of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction (“WMDs”). These services include operating and maintaining chemical agent disposal facilities and providing advisory services for dismantling and eliminating WMDs. In addition, we provide security analysis, program management, design, engineering and construction services for maritime and border facilities. These services include developing surveillance strategies, recommending technologies, and providing design and installation of fiber-optic communications and non-intrusive inspection equipment. Installations and Logistics We assist the U.S. federal government by providing services to support the operations of complex government and military installations and the management of logistics activities for government supply and distribution networks. Installations Management. We provide comprehensive services for the operation and maintenance of complex government installations, including military bases and test ranges. Our services vary from managing basic base operations to the design, installation and maintenance of complex equipment for testing new weapons. Logistics. We provide a number of DOD agencies and defense prime contractors with turn-key logistics support services focused on developing and managing integrated supply and distribution networks. We oversee warehousing, packaging, delivery and traffic management for the distribution of government equipment and materials. We also manage depot equipment maintenance, safety, security and contracting. Defense Systems We provide a variety of services to the U.S. federal government in support of military activities. These services include Defense Systems & Services, Field Services and Flight Services & Training. Defense Systems & Services. We provide a variety of weapons system design, maintenance and modernization services to DOD weapons systems management offices, laboratories, technical centers and support centers. Our services include acquisition support for new defense systems, engineering and technical assistance for the modernization of existing systems, and maintenance planning to help extend their service lives. Field Services. We maintain, modify and overhaul aircraft, ground vehicles, such as Humvees, tanks, and armored personnel carriers, and associated support equipment for the U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard. We provide these services for military operations both in the U.S. and abroad. Flight Services & Training. We provide a variety of services to the U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Coast Guard to support undergraduate and graduate-level training for pilots of military fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft. We also assist with the acquisition of military parts for these aircraft. Major Customer Our largest client type is the U.S. federal government (41% of our consolidated 2007 revenues) and our largest customer is the U.S. Army. During 2007, we had multiple contracts with the U.S. Army, which collectively contributed more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, as summarized in the following table, for the years ended December 28, 2007, December 29, 2006, and December 30, 2005. The loss of the U.S. Army as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our business; however, we are not dependent on any single contract on an ongoing basis, and we believe that the loss of any contract would not have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 (In millions) Year Ended December 28, 2007 Year Ended December 29, 2006 Year Ended December 30, 2005 The U.S. Army (1) URS Division $ 111.9 $ 107.8 $ 109.2 EG&G Division 785.4 735.2 682.2 Washington Division 65.1 — — Total U.S. Army $ 962.4 $ 843.0 $ 791.4 1) The U.S. Army includes U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Competition Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. The technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and, therefore, provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. To our knowledge, no individual company currently dominates any significant portion of our markets. Competition in our industry is based on quality of performance, reputation, expertise, price, technology, customer relationships, range of service offerings, and domestic and international office networks. We believe that we are well positioned to compete in our markets because of our solid reputation, our long-term client relationships, our extensive network of offices and our broad range of services. We are one of the largest engineering, construction and technical services firms worldwide and a major U.S. federal government contractor for systems engineering and technical assistance, operations and maintenance, and program management services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of services ranging from planning, engineering, and design through construction to operations and maintenance and decommissioning and closure. In addition, as a result of our national and international network of offices and contract-specific job sites in more than 30 countries, we can offer our governmental and private clients localized knowledge and expertise that is backed by the support of our worldwide professional staff. The competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: URS Division. The URS Division competes primarily based on performance, reputation, expertise, price, technology, customer relationships, range of service offerings, and domestic and international office networks. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. The primary competitors of our URS Division include AECOM Technology Corporation, CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd., Earth Tech Inc. (currently a subsidiary of Tyco International, Ltd.; however, on February 12, 2008, AECOM Technology Corporation announced that they had entered into a definitive agreement with Tyco to acquire Earth Tech Inc.), Fluor Corporation, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc., the Shaw Group Inc. and Tetra Tech, Inc. EG&G Division. The EG&G Division competes primarily based on quality of performance, reputation, expertise, price, technology, customer relationships and range of service offerings. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. The primary competitors of our EG&G Division include CACI International Inc., DynCorp International LLC, General Dynamics Corporation, KBR, Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, ManTech International Corporation, Raytheon Corporation and Science Application International Corporation (SAIC). 12 Washington Division. The Washington Division competes primarily based on performance, reputation, expertise, price, technology, customer relationships, range of service offerings, and domestic and international office networks. Competitors range from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. The primary competitors of our Washington Division include Bechtel Corporation, CB&I (Chicago Bridge & Iron Company N.V.), CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd., Foster-Wheeler Corporation, Fluor Corporation, Granite Construction Company, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., KBR, Inc., Kiewit Corporation, McDermott International, Inc., Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc., Parsons Corporation and the Shaw Group Inc. Book of Business We determine the value of all contract awards that may potentially be recognized as revenues over the life of the contracts. We categorize the value of our book of business into backlog, designations, option years and indefinite delivery contracts, or “IDCs,” based on the nature of the award and its current status. As of December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006, our total book of business was $30.0 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively. A discussion and breakdown of our book of business are included below. Acquired Book of Business (1) Consolidated Book of Business (In billions) November 16, 2007 December 28, 2007 Backlog $ 12.6 $ 18.7 Designations 1.1 3.1 Option Years 0.4 2.5 Indefinite Delivery Contracts 0.4 5.7 Total $ 14.5 $ 30.0 (1) We acquired the book of business of WGI through our WGI acquisition. The backlog acquired has been accounted for using our policy as described below, which is different than WGI’s previous policy. Under WGI’s policy, backlog excluded work on government contracts beyond two years and mining contracts beyond ten years. Backlog. Our contract backlog represents the monetary value of signed contracts, including task orders that have been issued and funded under IDCs and, where applicable, a notice to proceed has been received from the client, that is expected to be recognized as revenues when future services are performed. Our consolidated contract backlog was $18.7 billion and $4.6 billion at December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006, respectively. Designations. Our designations represent the monetary value of projects for which we have received a notice of award from our clients, but for which we do not yet have signed contracts or, where applicable, a notice to proceed. As of December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006, the estimated value of our consolidated designations was $3.1 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. Option Years. Our option years represent the monetary value of option periods under existing contracts in backlog, which are exercisable at the option of our clients without requiring us to go through an additional competitive bidding process and would only be canceled if a client decides to end the project (a termination for convenience) or through a termination for default. Options years are in addition to the “base periods” of these contracts. The base periods of these contracts can vary from one to five years. As of December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006, the estimated value of the option years on our contracts was $2.5 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. Indefinite Delivery Contracts. Indefinite delivery contracts represent the expected monetary value to us of signed contracts under which we perform work only when the client awards specific task orders to us. When such task orders are signed and funded, we transfer their value into backlog. Generally, the terms of these contracts exceed one year and often include a maximum term and potential value. IDCs generally range from one to twenty years in length. As of December 28, 2007 and December 29, 2006, the estimated remaining value of our consolidated IDCs was $5.7 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively. While the value of our book of business is a predictor of future revenues, we have no assurance, nor can we provide assurance, that we will ultimately realize the maximum potential values for backlog, designations, option years or IDCs. Based on our historical experience, our backlog has the highest likelihood of being converted into revenues because it is based upon signed and executable contracts with our clients. Although there is a high probability that our designations will eventually convert into revenues, they are not as certain as backlog because our clients have not yet signed a contract with us. Option years are not as certain as backlog because our clients may decide not to exercise one or more option years. Because we do not perform work under IDCs until specific task orders are issued, the value of our IDCs are not as likely to convert into revenues as other categories of our book of business. 13 History We were originally incorporated in California on May 1, 1957 under the former name of Broadview Research Corporation. On May 18, 1976, we re-incorporated in Delaware under the name URS Corporation. After several additional name changes, we re-adopted the name “URS Corporation” on February 21, 1990. Regulations We provide services for contracts that are subject to government oversight, including environmental laws and regulations, general government procurement laws and regulations, and other government regulations and requirements. For more information on risks associated with our government regulations, please refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this report. Environmental Regulations. A portion of our business involves planning, design, construction management and operation and maintenance of pollution control facilities, as well as the assessment, design and management of remediation activities at hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. federal governmental entities to destroy hazardous and radioactive materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. Some environmental laws including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, (“RCRA”), and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, (“CERCLA”), as well as other governmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of the clean-up of contaminated facilities or sites upon present and former owners and operators as well as generators, transporters and persons arranging for the treatment or disposal of such substances. While we strive to handle hazardous and toxic substances with care and in accordance with safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills and the events of force majeure always exist. Humans exposed to these materials, including workers or subcontractors engaged in the transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and persons in affected areas may be injured or become ill, resulting in lawsuits that expose us to liability and may result in substantial damage awards against us. Liabilities for contamination or human exposure to hazardous or toxic materials or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or cessation of remediation activities. Some of our business operations are covered by Public Law 85-804, which provides for government indemnification against claims and damages arising out of unusually hazardous or nuclear activities performed at the request of the government. Should public policies and laws be changed, however, government indemnification may not be available in the case of any future claims or liabilities relating to hazardous activities that we undertake to perform. Government Procurement. The services we provide to the U.S. federal government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), the Truth in Negotiations Act (“TINA”), the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), the Service Contract Act (“SCA”), DOD security regulations and other rules and regulations applicable to government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our government clients and in some instances, impose added costs to our business operations. A violation of specific laws and regulations could lead to fines, contract termination or suspension of future contracts. Our government clients can also terminate, renegotiate, or modify any of their contracts with us at their convenience, and many of our government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. 14 Other regulations and requirements. We provide services to the DOD and other defense-related entities that often require specialized professional qualifications and security clearances. Our international business is also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as various export control, anti-boycott, and embargo laws. In addition, as engineering design services professionals, we are subject to a variety of local, state and foreign licensing and permit requirements. Sales and Marketing Our URS Division performs business development, sales and marketing activities primarily through our network of local offices around the world. For large, market-specific projects requiring diverse technical capabilities, we utilize the companywide resources of specific disciplines. This often involves coordinating marketing efforts on a regional, national or global level. Our EG&G Division performs business development, sales and marketing activities primarily through its management groups, which address specific markets, such as homeland security and defense systems. In addition, our EG&G Division coordinates national marketing efforts on large projects and for multi-division or multi-market scope efforts. Over the past year, the URS Division and the EG&G Division have jointly pursued several federal defense and homeland security projects, and have been successful in marketing the EG&G Division’s technical capabilities to the URS Division’s established state and local government clients. Our Washington Division conducts business development, sales and marketing activities at a business unit or market level. For large complex projects, markets or clients that require broad-based capabilities, business development efforts are coordinated across business units and/or divisions. Seasonality We experience seasonal trends in our business in connection with federal holidays, such as Memorial Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Day. Our revenues are typically lower during these times of the year because many of our clients’ employees, as well as our own employees, do not work during these holidays, resulting in fewer billable hours worked on projects and thus lesser revenues recognized. In addition to holidays, our business also is affected by seasonal bad weather conditions that occasionally cause some of our offices and projects to temporarily reduce activities. Raw Materials We purchase most of the raw materials and components necessary to operate our business from numerous sources. However, the price and availability of raw materials and components may vary from year to year due to customer demand, production capacity, market conditions and material shortages. While we do not currently foresee the lack of availability of any particular raw materials in the near term, prolonged unavailability of raw materials necessary to our projects and services or significant price increases for those raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business in the near term. Government Contracts A substantial portion of our business is subject to renegotiation or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the discretion of the U.S. federal, state or local governments. 15 Trade Secrets and Other Intellectual Property Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Research and Development We have not incurred any material costs for company-sponsored research and development activities. Insurance Our insurance program for the URS and EG&G Divisions includes limits totaling $125.0 million per loss and $125.0 million in the aggregate for general liability, professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability policy includes a self-insured claim retention of $4.0 million (or $10.0 million in some circumstances). The professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance policies include a self-insured claim retention amount of $10.0 million for each covered claim. Our insurance program for the Washington Division includes limits totaling $500.0 million per loss and $500.0 million in the aggregate for general liability and $200.0 million per loss and $200.0 million in the aggregate for professional errors and omissions liability (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability and the professional errors and omissions liability include a deductible of $2.0 million for each covered claim. Parties may seek damages that substantially exceed our insurance coverage. Some of our excess insurance policies above our primary policy limits provide for coverages on a “claims made” basis, covering only claims actually made and reported during the policy period currently in effect. Thus, if we do not continue to maintain these policies, we will have no coverage for claims made after the termination date, even for claims based on events that occurred during the term of coverage. While we intend to maintain these policies, we may be unable to maintain existing coverage levels. We have maintained insurance without lapse for many years with limits in excess of losses sustained. Employees The number of our employees will vary with the volume, type and scope of our operations at any given time. As of January 31, 2008, we had approximately 56,000 employees, which includes 3,300 temporary or part-time workers. The URS Division, the EG&G Division, and the Washington Division employed approximately 18,000, 13,000, and 25,000 persons (including temporary and part-time workers), respectively. At various times, we have employed up to several thousand workers on a temporary or part-time basis to meet our contractual obligations. Approximately 11% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to amendment on various dates ranging from March 2008 to June 2011, or by specific labor agreements, which expire upon completion of the relevant project. 16 Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Position Held Age Martin M. Koffel Chief Executive Officer, President and Director since May 1989; Chairman of the Board since June 1989. 68 Thomas W. Bishop Vice President, Strategy since July 2003; Senior Vice President, Construction Services since March 2002; Director of Operations for the Construction Services Division from 1999 to 2002. 61 Reed N. Brimhall Chief Accounting Officer since May 2005; Vice President and Corporate Controller from May 2003 to May 2005; Senior Vice President and Controller of Washington Group International, Inc. from 1999 to 2003. 54 H. Thomas Hicks Chief Financial Officer since March 2006; Vice President, Finance from September 2005 to March 2006; Managing Director of Investment Banking, Merrill Lynch from September 1997 to September 2005. 57 Gary V. Jandegian President of the URS Division and Vice President since July 2003; Senior Vice President of URS Greiner Woodward-Clyde, Inc. (“URSGWC”) from 1998 to July 2003. 55 Susan B. Kilgannon Vice President, Communications since October 1999. 49 Joseph Masters Vice President since July 1994; General Counsel since July 1997 and Corporate Secretary since March 2006. 51 Randall A. Wotring President of the EG&G Division and Vice President since November 2004; Vice President and General Manager of Engineering and Technology Services (“ETS”) of the EG&G Division from August 2002 to November 2004; Vice President and General Manager of ETS of EG&G Technical Services, Inc. from 1998 to August 2002. 51 Thomas H. Zarges President of the Washington Division since January 2008; Senior Executive Vice President Operations of the Washington Division from November 2007 through January 2008; Senior Executive Vice President – Operations of Washington Group International, Inc. from October 2002 through November 2007. 59 17 Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our web site at www.urscorp.com. These reports, and any amendments to these reports, are made available on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC also maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and other information that we filed with the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters for our Audit, Board Affairs and Compensation Committees, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our web site at www.urscorp.com under the “Corporate Governance” section. Any waivers or amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on our web site. A printed copy of this information is also available without charge by sending a written request to: Corporate Secretary, URS Corporation, 600 Montgomery Street, 26th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94111-2728. On June 25, 2007 we submitted to the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the Annual CEO Certification regarding our compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance listing standards as required by Section 303 A.12(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. In addition we are filing as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K the applicable certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer required to pursuant Section 302 and 906 of the Sarbannes-Oxley Act of 2002. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following factors also could affect our financial condition and results of operations and should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 37 and the consolidation financial statements and related notes beginning on page 72: Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to sudden economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial conditions may rapidly deteriorate. Demand for our services in our infrastructure and defense markets is cyclical and vulnerable to sudden economic downturns and reductions in government spending, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. For example, there was a decrease in our URS Division revenues of $77.9 million, or 3.4%, in fiscal year 2002 compared to fiscal year 2001 as a result of the general economic decline. Due to the recent economic downturn in the U.S. housing markets and severe tightening of the credit markets, many of our clients may face considerable budget shortfalls that may limit their overall demand for our services. For example, we expect that overall state government spending will be lower than in the previous year due to decreased state tax revenues as well as other economic reasons. In addition, our clients may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to uncertainty in the municipal and general credit markets. Also, global demand for commodities has increased raw material costs, which may more rapidly deplete the funds available by our clients to spend on projects. Our clients may demand better pricing terms and their ability to pay our invoices may be affected by a weakening economy. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy weakens or government spending is reduced, then our revenues, net income and overall financial condition may deteriorate. 18 We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our book of business, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. We account for all contract awards that may eventually be recognized as revenues as our “book of business,” which includes backlog, designations, option years and IDCs. Our backlog consists of the amount billable at a particular point in time, including task orders issued under IDCs. As of December 28, 2007, our book of business was approximately $30.0 billion, which included $18.7 million of our backlog. Our designations consist of projects that clients have awarded us, but for which we do not yet have signed contracts. Our option year contracts are multi-year contracts with base periods, plus option years that are exercisable by our clients without the need for us to go through another competitive bidding process. Our IDCs are signed contracts under which we perform work only when our clients issue specific task orders. Our book of business estimates may not result in actual revenues in any particular period because clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or issue task orders. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our book of business, our operations could be harmed and our future revenues and profits could be significantly reduced. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws, regulations and government audits; a violation of any such laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. We enter into significant government contracts, such as our waste treatment projects with the DOE. We are affected by and must comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with the FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the CAS, the Services Contract Act and the DOD security regulations, as well as many other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our clients and in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor’s performance under its contracts, a government contractor’s direct and indirect cost structure, and a government contractor’s compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For example, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs and, if the DCAA believes we have accounted for these costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. We can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowances for incurred costs in the future. In addition, government contracts are subject to a variety of other socioeconomic requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting for these contracts. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. 19 The completion of our merger with WGI substantially increased our indebtedness which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and financial condition. On November 15, 2007, in order to complete the WGI acquisition, we entered into a new Senior Secured Credit Facility (“2007 Credit Facility”), which provides for two term loan facilities in the aggregate amount of $1.4 billion and a revolving credit facility in the amount of $700.0 million, which is also available for issuing letters of credit. All loans outstanding under the 2007 Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at either the base rate or LIBOR plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will adjust to a leverage-based performance pricing grid based on our ratio of consolidated total funded debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), referred to as the “Consolidated Leverage Ratio.” As of December 28, 2007, our outstanding balance under the 2007 Credit Facility was $1.3 billion. Based on assumed interest rates and the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, our debt service obligations, comprised of interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next twelve months will be approximately $75.7 million. If our Consolidated Leverage Ratio is higher than assumed, our interest expense and unused revolving line of credit fees will increase. Based on the expected outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.3 billion under the 2007 Credit Facility, if market rates were to average 1% higher or lower during that same twelve-month period, our net-of-tax interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $1.7 million, respectively. We have hedged $900.0 million of our 2007 Credit Facility using floating-for-fixed interest rate swaps. The notional amount of the swaps is less than the outstanding debt and as such, we are exposed to increasing or decreasing market interest rates on the unhedged portion. As a result of this increase in debt, demands on our cash resources will increase. The increased level of debt could, among other things: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; · increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; · adversely affect our ability to obtain surety bonds; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate initiatives; · create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; · adversely affect our stock price; and · limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. We may not be able to generate or borrow enough cash to service our indebtedness, which could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash in the future to service our indebtedness. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. Our 2007 Credit Facility limits our ability to sell assets and also restricts our use of the proceeds from any such sale. If we default on our debt obligations, our lenders could require immediate repayment of our entire outstanding debt. If our lenders require immediate repayment on the entire principal amount, we will not be able to repay them in full, and our inability to meet our debt obligations could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. 20 Restrictive covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility may restrict our ability to pursue business strategies. Our 2007 Credit Facility and our other outstanding indebtedness include covenants limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends to our stockholders; · repurchase or redeem our stock; · repay indebtedness that is junior to our 2007 Credit Facility; · make investments and other restricted payments; · create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; · sell or exchange assets; and · acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. Our 2007 Credit Facility also requires that we maintain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. The covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. Our inability to successfully integrate WGI would result in us not realizing all of the benefits of the acquisition, which could severely weaken our results of operations. Our inability to successfully integrate WGI (now referred to as our Washington Division) would result in us not realizing all of the benefits of the acquisition and could severely weaken our business operations. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of URS with the Washington Division. We are devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating the Washington Division into URS. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and could seriously harm our results of operation. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the Washington Division into URS include, among others: 21 · coordinating bid and marketing functions; · unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; · unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods; · maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; · integrating the business cultures of both companies; · preserving important strategic and customer relationships; · consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; · the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and · coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of the Washington Division are integrated successfully with URS, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. As a result, we cannot assure you that the integration of the Washington Division with URS will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition, which could severely weaken our results of operation. Because we depend on federal, state and local governments for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. Revenues from federal government contracts and state and local government contracts represented approximately 41% and 21%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 28, 2007. Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as IDCs, that generally require those contractors that have previously been awarded the IDC to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our future revenues and profits. 22 Each year client funding for some of our government contracts may rely on legislative appropriations or public supported financing. If adequate public funding is not available then our future revenues and profits could decline. Each year client funding for some of our government contracts may directly or indirectly rely on legislative appropriations or public supported financing. For example, the passage of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (“SAFETEA-LU”) highway and transit bill in August of 2005 has provided additional funding for various clients’ state transportation projects, for which we provide services. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. In addition, public supported financing such as state and local municipal bonds may only be partially raised to support existing infrastructure projects. As a result, a project we are currently working on may only be partially funded and thus additional public funding may be required in order to complete our contract. Public funds and the timing of payment of such funds may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, rise in raw material costs, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If adequate public funding is not available then our future revenues and profits could decline. Our government contracts may give the government the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace these contracts, then we may suffer a decline in future revenues and profits. Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right for the government to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts and subcontracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in future revenues and profits. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. It is important for us to control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus, fixed-price, target-price and time-and-materials. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all of the costs we incur. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage costs. If we are unable to control costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the customer defaults on its payment obligations, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: 23 · the application of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; · provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; · value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; · valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; · valuation of defined benefit pension plans and other employee benefit plans; · valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts in process, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Because we have grown through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other net intangible assets were $3.7 billion as of December 28, 2007. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we would be required to write off the impaired amount, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our failure to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a surety bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. 24 If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by our clients, industrial accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to reputational loss and additional financial performance that could significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. We often enter into joint ventures so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. The success of these and other joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations by our joint venture partners. If our partners do not meet their obligations, the joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver its contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. Our dependence on subcontractors could adversely affect us. As the size and complexity of our projects have increased, we have increasingly relied on third-party subcontractors to complete our projects and have become involved more frequently in equipment and materials procurement. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceed our estimates, we could experience reduced profit or experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials are needed. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to customer projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on those customer projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project to which we have devoted significant resources, it could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 25 We have seen an increase in our claims against project owners for payment and our failure to recover adequately on these and future claims could have a material effect on us. We have over the past few years seen an increase in the volume and the amount of claims brought by us against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost, both direct and indirect. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Adequate bonding is necessary for us to successfully win new work awards on some types of contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required, to provide performance and payment bonds to customers under fixed-price contracts. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. We have bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to substantial liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. A portion of our environmental business involves the planning, design, program management, construction management, and operation and maintenance of pollution control facilities, hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. federal government entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. We must comply with a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under the CERCLA and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of clean up could be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. Our past waste management practices and contract mining activities as well as our current and prior ownership of various properties may also expose us to such liabilities. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability. 26 Our business exposes us to potential liability claims and legal proceedings which may reduce our future profits and revenues. We engage in engineering and construction activities where design, construction or other failures can result in substantial injury or damages to third parties. In addition, we may be exposed to other liability claims such as cost overruns, personal injury claims, property damage, labor disputes, weather problems and unforeseen engineering, architectural, environmental and geological problems. Our business frequently requires us to make judgments and recommendations about environmental, structural, geotechnical and other conditions at project sites. If our performance, judgments and recommendation are later found to be incomplete or incorrect, then we may be liable for the resulting damages. We have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our project or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Currently, our insurance program for the URS and EG&G Divisions includes limits totaling $125.0 million per loss and $125.0 million in the aggregate for general liability, professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability policy includes a self-insured claim retention of $4.0 million (or $10.0 million in some circumstances). The professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance policies include a self-insured claim retention amount of $10.0 million for each covered claim. Our insurance program for the Washington Division includes limits totaling $500.0 million per loss and $500.0 million in the aggregate for general liability and $200.0 million per loss and $200.0 million in the aggregate for professional errors and omissions liability (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability and the professional errors and omissions liability include a deductible of $2.0 million for each covered claim. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Unavailability of third-party insurance coverage at an affordable price would increase our risk exposure. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in many of our contracts. There can be no assurance, however that such insurance coverage will continue to be available at required levels, if at all, in the future. Changes in environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Our environmental services business is driven by federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. For example, passage of the Clean Air Interstate and Clean Air Mercury environmental rules has increased our emission control business. On the other hand, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs could result in a decline in demand for environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. The limitation or the modification of the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification authority could adversely affect our business. The Price-Anderson Act (“PAA”) comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials, while promoting the nuclear energy industry by offering broad indemnification to nuclear energy plant operators and DOE contractors. Because we provide services to the DOE relating to its nuclear weapons facilities and the nuclear energy industry in the ongoing maintenance and modification, as well as the decontamination and decommissioning, of its nuclear energy plants, we are entitled to the indemnification protections under the PAA. However, the PAA’s indemnification provisions are broad, it does not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a radioactive materials cleanup contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If the indemnification authority does not extend to all of our services, our business could be adversely affected by either a refusal of new facilities operations to retain us or our inability to obtain commercially adequate insurance and indemnification. 27 A decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Revenues under contracts with the DOD and other defense-related clients represented approximately 33% of our total revenues for the year ended December 28, 2007. Recent increases in spending authorization for defense-related programs and in outsourcing of federal government jobs to the private sector may not be sustainable. For example, the DOD budget declined in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in DOD program delays and cancellations. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related programs, including foreign military commitments, may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Our overall market share and profits will decline if we are unable to compete successfully in our industry. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. For example, according to the publication Engineering News-Record, based on information voluntarily reported by 500 design firms, the top ten engineering design firms only accounted for approximately 32% of the total top 500 design firm revenues in 2006. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of some of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share, revenues and profits will decline. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As a professional and technical services company, we are labor intensive, and therefore our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. Following the completion of our merger with WGI, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future with the combined company, which could adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. If we are unable to retain executives and other key personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources to identifying, hiring and integrating new employees. In addition, the failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. 28 Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts with government clients, which could result in decreasing revenues. As a federal, state, and local government contractor, misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, laws regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. Other examples of potential misconduct include time card fraud and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win future contracts with government clients. Because we are a holding company, we may not be able to service our debt if our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than investments in the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our business operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for payments and dividends to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal restrictions, including local regulations and contractual obligations associated with secured loans, such as equipment financings, could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt at maturity. As of December 28, 2007, our debt service obligations, comprised of interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next twelve months, are estimated to be approximately $75.7 million. Based on the current outstanding indebtedness of $1.3 billion under our 2007 Credit Facility, of which $0.4 billion is unhedged, if market rates were to average 1% higher during that same twelve-month period, our net of tax interest expense would increase by approximately $1.7 million. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. As a multinational company, we have operations in over 30 countries and we derived 11% of our revenues from international operations for the year ended December 28, 2007. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: · lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; · greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; · currency fluctuations; · logistical and communication challenges; · potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; · changes in labor conditions; · exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the export control and anti-boycott laws; and · general economic and political conditions in foreign markets. 29 These and other risks associated with international operations could harm our overall operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. In addition, services billed through foreign subsidiaries are attributed to the international category of our business, regardless of where the services are performed and conversely, services billed through domestic operating subsidiaries are attributed to a domestic category of clients, regardless of where the services are performed. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenues attributed to our international operations. Our international operations may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity, acts of terrorism, or public health crises. For example, we have employees working in high security risk countries located in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. As a result, we risk loss of or injury to our employees and may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We rely on third-party software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems and, as a result, any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain these systems could significantly increase our operational expense as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We rely on third-party software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. For example, we relied on one software vendor’s products to process approximately 62% of our total revenues for the year ended December 28, 2007. We also depend on our third-party software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense as well as disrupting the management of our business operations. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina that affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005, and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. For example, Hurricane Katrina caused several of our Gulf Coast offices to close, interrupted a number of active client projects and forced the relocation of our employees in that region from their homes. In addition, during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, several of our Washington Division employees perished and our office at the World Trade Center was destroyed. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of December 28, 2007, approximately 11% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefits expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address the threat of union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature of the threat or the type and duration of any work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. 30 We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. Our stock price could become more volatile and shareholders’ investments could lose value. All the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public markets regarding new services or potential problems with the performance of services by us or our competitors or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements’ attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 