Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Financial Condition.” Our forecast of the period of time through which our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following · the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of the proprietary drug candidates within our portfolio and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; · our ability to achieve our milestones under licensing arrangements; · the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities; and · the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We have based our estimate on assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. We may need to obtain additional funds sooner or in greater amounts than we currently anticipate. Potential sources of financing may be obtained through strategic relationships, public or private sales of our equity or debt securities, and other sources. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets when conditions are favorable due to our long-term capital requirements. We do not have any committed sources of financing at this time, and it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our ordinary shares or other securities convertible into shares of our ordinary shares, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be unable to carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligations under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support. Obligations and Commitments As of December 31, 2005, we had known contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies of $2,719,000. Of this amount, $652,000 relates to research and development agreements, of which $585,000 is due within the next year, with the remaining balance due as per the schedule below. The additional $2,067,000 relates to our operating lease obligations, of which $720,000 is due within the next year, with the remaining balance due as per the schedule below. Payment due by period Contractual obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Research & development agreements $ 652,000 $ 585,000 $ 67,000 $ -- $ -- Operating leases 2,067,000 720,000 921,000 426,000 -- Total $ 2,719,000 $ 1,305,000 $ 988,000 $ 426,000 $ -- 40 Additionally, we have undertaken to make contingent milestone payments to certain licensors of up to approximately $49.0 million over the life of the licenses, of which $34.0 million will be due upon or following regulatory approval of the drugs. In some cases, these contingent payments will only be triggered upon receipt of royalties on sales of related products and in certain cases will partially offset royalties we would otherwise owe those licensors. See “