ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. The success of our Company is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of our Packet8 Service. Our future success as a Company depends on our ability to significantly increase revenues generated from our Packet8 services. In turn, the success of our Packet8 voice and video communications services depends, among other things, upon future demand for VoIP telephony systems and services. Because the use of our service requires that the user be a subscriber to an existing broadband Internet service, usually provided through a cable or digital subscriber line, or DSL, connection, slow or limited adoption of broadband Internet service could adversely affect the growth in our subscriber base and revenues. Although the number of broadband subscribers worldwide has grown significantly over the last five years, this service has not yet been adopted by a majority of consumers. To increase the deployment of broadband Internet services from broadband Internet service providers, telephone companies and cable companies must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and business customers, over which we have no control. In addition, VoIP networks must improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be consistently provided. VoIP telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the PSTN have come to expect from their telephone service, and the cost and feature benefits of VoIP must be sufficient to cause customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. Furthermore, customers in markets serviced by deregulated telecommunications providers are not familiar with obtaining services from competitors of these providers, and may be reluctant to use new providers such as us. We will need to devote substantial resources to educate customers and end users about the benefits of VoIP telephony solutions, in general, and our services in particular. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our business may be affected adversely. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers' access to VoIP applications and services, or otherwise discriminating against VoIP providers. Conceivably, some providers of broadband access may take measures that affect their 13 customers' ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets lower priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. Interference with our service or higher charges for also using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. These problems have arisen in the past in the United States and in certain international markets. Certain aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service, which may limit the acceptance of our services by mainstream consumers and businesses customers and our potential for growth. Certain aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Because our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers and business customers, our ability to adequately address significant differences through our technology, customer services, marketing and sales efforts is becoming increasingly important. For example: Our business services differ from traditional business private branch exchange, or PBX, systems in that no customer premise equipment is required other than our telephones and terminal adapters. There is no "equipment closet" or dedicated voice wiring required. For many of our customers, these are new and unfamiliar concepts. Our E-911 calling service is different, in significant respects, from the E-911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers. Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates and lower service availability rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone carriers because our services depend on networks and services with more single points of failure than traditional wireline networks. Our customers cannot accept collect calls. In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption, our services are interrupted. Unlike some cable VoIP services, we have not installed batteries at the customer premises to provide temporary emergency power for our customers' equipment if they lose power, though our data centers are protected by power backup and other measures to mitigate the risk of not being able to maintain our data center operations in the event of a power outage or some other emergency situation. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they might not subscribe to our VoIP services and our business, operating results and cash flows would be affected adversely. We have a history of losses and are uncertain as to our future profitability. We recorded an operating loss of $3.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and ended the period with an accumulated deficit of $200 million. In addition, we recorded operating losses of approximately $14 million and $25 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenues in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of fluctuating revenues and operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve operating profitability on an annual basis or maintain operating profitability on a quarterly basis in the future. The VoIP telephony market is subject to rapid technological change, and we depend on new product and service introductions in order to maintain and grow our business. VoIP telephony is an emerging market that is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, and continuing and rapid technological advancement. To compete successfully in this emerging market, we must continue to design, develop, manufacture, and sell new and enhanced VoIP telephony software products and services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability at lower cost. These new and enhanced products must take advantage of technological advancements and changes, and respond to new customer requirements. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing, and selling such products and services will depend on a variety of factors, including: quality of the service that we provide; the identification of new technologies and timely implementation of product design and development; 14 the scalability of our VoIP telephony software products; product and feature selection; product performance; cost-effectiveness of current products and services and products under development; our ability to successfully implement service features mandated by federal and state law; and effectiveness of promotional efforts. Decreasing telecommunications rates and increasing regulatory charges may diminish or eliminate our competitive pricing advantage. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing advantage of our services. Increased regulation and the imposition of additional regulatory funding obligations at the federal, state and local level could require us to either increase the retail price for our services, thus making us less competitive or absorb such costs, thus decreasing our profit margins. In fiscal 2007, we began to pass Universal Service and E-911 fees and taxes onto our customers and in fiscal 2008, we began to pass sales, use and communications taxes onto certain of our customers. International and domestic telecommunications rates have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we operate, and we anticipate these rates will continue to decline in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications rates and our rates may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers if such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. In addition, our ability to market our services to other service providers depends upon the existence of spreads between the rates offered by us and the rates offered by traditional telecommunications carriers, as well as a spread between the retail and wholesale rates charged by the carriers from which we obtain wholesale services. Continued rate decreases would require us to lower our rates to remain competitive and will reduce or possibly eliminate any gross profit from our services. Furthermore, if telecommunications rates continue to decline, we may lose subscribers for our services. We rely on third party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our public switched telephone network calls. We leverage the infrastructure of third party network service providers to provide telephone numbers, PSTN call termination and origination services and local number portability for our customers rather than deploying our own network throughout the United States. This decision has resulted in lower operating costs for our business in the short term but has reduced our operating flexibility and ability to make timely service changes. If any of these network service providers cease operations or otherwise terminate the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another network service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we believe that relations with our current service providers are good and we have contracts in place, there can be no assurance that these service providers will be able or willing to supply cost-effective services to us in the future or that we will be successful in signing up alternative or additional providers. While we believe that we could replace our current providers, if necessary, our ability to provide service to our subscribers would be impacted during this timeframe, and this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of access to, or requirement to change, the telephone numbers we provide to our customers also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Intense competition in the markets in which we compete could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and increasing or maintaining profitability. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers, alternative voice communication providers and independent VoIP providers. 15 Most traditional wireline and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large, existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Until recently, our target market has been composed largely of early adopters, or people who tend to seek out new technologies and services. Attracting customers away from their existing providers will become more difficult as the early adopter market becomes saturated and mainstream customers make up more of our target market. In addition, these competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop competing technology that may be more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Our competitors' financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors could also use their greater financial resources to offer VoIP services with more attractive service packages that include on-site installation and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, they may choose to offer VoIP services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer VoIP service at prices we may not be able to compete with, to offer a single bill for multiple services, or to offer functionality that integrates VoIP service with their other offerings, any of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers or could cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers and face competition from other large, well-capitalized Internet companies that have recently launched or plan to launch VoIP-enabled services. In addition, we compete with independent VoIP service providers. Some of these service providers may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share by offering their services at lower prices or free. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to significantly reduce our prices, which would delay or prevent our profitability. We also are subject to the risk that new technologies may be developed that are able to deliver competing voice services at lower prices, better or more conveniently. Future competition from new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our growth and operating results. Given the significant price competition in the markets for our products, we are at a significant disadvantage compared to our competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources, and therefore may be better able to withstand an extended period of downward pricing pressure. The adverse impact of a shortfall in our revenues may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending to compensate for such shortfall. Announcements by our competitors or us of new products and technologies could cause customers to defer purchases of our existing products, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. Our competitors may also offer bundled service arrangements offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. We depend on contract manufacturers to manufacture substantially all of our products, and any delay or interruption in manufacturing by these contract manufacturers would result in delayed or reduced shipments to our customers and may harm our business. We do not have long-term purchase agreements with our contract manufacturers and we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a substantial portion of manufacturing our products. There can be no assurance that our contract manufacturers will be able or willing to reliably manufacture our products, in volumes, on a cost-effective basis or in a timely manner. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers, or if any of the contract manufacturers experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. In particular, if one of our contract manufacturers becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we may not be able to obtain any of our products held by the contract manufacturer. We also rely on third party component suppliers to provide semiconductor circuit packages for our products. In some instances, these components are provided by a single supplier. Our reliance on these suppliers involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of these component vendors. As a result, most of these third party vendors are not obligated to provide 16 products or perform services to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The inability of these third party vendors to deliver components of acceptable quality and in a timely manner, particularly the sole source vendors, could adversely affect our operating results or cause them to fluctuate more than anticipated. Additionally, some of our products may require specialized or high-performance component parts that may not be available in quantities or in time frames that meet our requirements. We may have difficulty identifying the source of the problem when there is a problem in a network. Our Packet8 service must successfully integrate with products from other vendors, such as gateways to traditional telephone systems. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by our Packet8 service or another vendor's products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may force us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of some of these types of problems may seriously harm our business, financial condition or operating results. Our infringement of a third party's proprietary technology would disrupt our business. There has been substantial litigation in the communications, VoIP services, semiconductor, electronics, and related industries regarding intellectual property rights and, from time to time, third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. Our broad range of technology, including IP telephony systems, digital and analog circuits, software, and semiconductors, increases the likelihood that third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. For example, on May 2, 2008, we received a letter from AT&T Intellectual Property, L.L.C. ("AT&T IP) expressing the belief that we must license a specified patent for use in our Packet8 broadband telephone service, as well as suggesting that we obtain a license to its portfolio of MPEG-4 patents for use with our video telephone products and services. We have just commenced our evaluation of this letter and have not determined whether AT&T IP's suggestions have merit. At the same time, we have begun an evaluation of whether AT&T IP's affiliated entities may need to license any of our patents or other intellectual property. We are unable at this time to state whether we will enter into any license or cross-license agreements with AT&T IP or whether we ultimately anticipate any material effects on our operating results or financial condition as a consequence of these matters. If we were found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, we could be subject to liabilities for such infringement, which could be material. We could also be required to refrain from using, manufacturing or selling certain products or using certain processes, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in these discussions and actions or that other actions alleging infringement by us of third party patents will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. Certain technology necessary for us to provide our services may, in fact, be patented by other parties either now or in the future. If such technology were held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that certain technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such a patent, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using such technology and offering products and services incorporating such technology. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently utilized by us or other technology which we may seek to license in the future, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, and could harm our business. These licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses. The cost and terms of these licenses individually are not material to our business. Inability to protect our proprietary technology would disrupt our business. We rely, in part, on trademark, copyright, and trade secret law to protect our intellectual property in the United States and abroad. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright law, which afford only limited protection. We also rely, in part, on patent law to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. As of May 20, 2008, we had been awarded 72 United States patents and have additional United States and foreign patent applications pending. We cannot predict whether such pending patent applications will result in issued patents that effectively protect our intellectual property. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights in the United States or internationally (where effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited), and 17 competitors may independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around any patent of ours. We have, in the past, licensed and, in the future, expect to continue licensing our technology to others, many of whom are located or may be located abroad. There are no assurances that such licensees will protect our technology from misappropriation. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management time and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Any settlement or adverse determination in such litigation would also subject us to significant liability. Our products must comply with industry standards, FCC regulations, state, local, country-specific and international regulations, and changes may require us to modify existing products and/or services. In addition to reliability and quality standards, the market acceptance of telephony over broadband IP networks is dependent upon the adoption of industry standards so that products from multiple manufacturers are able to communicate with each other. Our VoIP telephony products rely heavily on communication standards such as SIP, MGCP and network standards such as TCP/IP and UDP to interoperate with other vendors' equipment. There is currently a lack of agreement among industry leaders about which standard should be used for a particular application, and about the definition of the standards themselves. These standards, as well as audio and video compression standards, continue to evolve. We also must comply with certain rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regarding electromagnetic radiation and safety standards established by Underwriters Laboratories, as well as similar regulations and standards applicable in other countries. Standards are continuously being modified and replaced. As standards evolve, we may be required to modify our existing products or develop and support new versions of our products. We must comply with certain federal, state and local requirements regarding how we interact with our customers, including marketing practices, consumer protection, privacy, and billing issues, the provision of 9-1-1 emergency service and the quality of service we provide to our customers. The failure of our products and services to comply, or delays in compliance, with various existing and evolving standards could delay or interrupt volume production of our VoIP telephony products, subject us to fines or other imposed penalties, or harm the perception and adoption rates of our service, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our ability to offer services outside the U.S. is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be unknown, complicated and uncertain. Regulatory treatment of VoIP telephony outside the United States varies from country to country and often the laws are unclear. We currently distribute our products and services directly to consumers and through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure by us or our customers and resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability. Because of our relationship with the resellers, some countries may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications provider in that country. In such case, our failure to do so could subject us to fines or penalties. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our international operation. Future legislation or regulation of the Internet and/or voice and video over IP services could restrict our business, prevent us from offering service or increase our cost of doing business. There are an increasing number of regulations and rulings that specifically address access to commerce and communications services on the Internet, including IP telephony. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that future legislation, legal decisions or regulations concerning the Internet may have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulation may be targeted towards, among other things, assessing access or settlement charges, imposing taxes related to Internet communications and imposing tariffs or regulations based on encryption concerns or the characteristics and quality of products and services, any of which could restrict our business or increase our cost of doing business. The increasing growth of the broadband IP telephony market and popularity of broadband IP telephony products and services heighten the risk that governments or other legislative bodies will seek to regulate broadband IP telephony and the Internet. In addition, large, established telecommunication companies may devote substantial lobbying efforts to influence the regulation of the broadband IP telephony market, which may be contrary to our interests. Many regulatory actions are underway or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities, including the FCC and other state and local regulatory agencies. On February 12, 2004, the FCC initiated a notice of public rule-making to update FCC policy and consider the appropriate regulatory classification for VoIP and other IP enabled services. On November 9, 2004, the FCC ruled that Vonage DigitalVoice and similar services are jurisdictionally interstate and not subject to state certification, 18 tariffing and other common carrier regulations. This ruling was subsequently appealed by several states. On March 21, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the FCC's declaratory ruling. There is risk that a regulatory agency will require us to conform to rules that are unsuitable for IP communications technologies or rules that cannot be complied with due to the nature and efficiencies of IP routing, or are unnecessary or unreasonable in light of the manner in which Packet8 offers service to its customers. It is not possible to separate the Internet, or any service offered over it, into intrastate and interstate components as we currently have no means to automatically identify the physical location of one of our subscribers on the Internet. While suitable alternatives may be developed in the future, the current IP network does not enable us to identify the geographic nature of the traffic traversing the Internet, or dynamically pinpoint or update the location of our customers' telephony devices. In the United States, the FCC as well as our competitors have made statements in the past suggesting that we should be required to automatically determine the physical location of our customers' equipment as a precondition for offering telecommunications services to them. Taxes will increase our customers' cost of using our service and we may be subject to liabilities for past sales and additional taxes, surcharges and fees. Until 2007, we did not collect or remit state or municipal taxes, such as sales, excise, and ad valorem taxes, fees or surcharges on the charges to our customers for our services, except that we have historically complied with the collection of California sales tax and financial contributions to the 9-1-1 system and universal service fund. We have received inquiries or demands from a number of state and municipal taxing agencies seeking payment of taxes, fees or surcharges that are applied to or collected from customers of providers of traditional public switched telephone network services. Although we have consistently maintained that these taxes, fees or surcharges do not apply to our service for a variety of reasons depending on the statute or rule that establishes such obligations, a number of states have changed their statutes as part of streamlined sales tax initiatives and we are now collecting and remitting sales taxes in those states. The collection of these taxes, fees or surcharges will have the effect of decreasing any price advantage we may have over other providers who have historically paid these taxes and fees. Our compliance with these tax initiatives will also make us less competitive with those competitors who choose not to comply with these tax initiatives. We have established an accrued tax liability of $2.1 million as of March 31, 2008, to account for the claims by some states that we should have collected and remitted sales taxes in the past. If our ultimate liability exceeds that amount, it could result in significant charges to our earnings. Our emergency and E-911 calling services are different from those offered by traditional wireline telephone companies and may expose us to significant liability. There may be risks associated with limitations associated with E-911 emergency dialing with the Packet8 service. Both our emergency calling service and our E-911 calling service are different, in significant respects, from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. In each case, the differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers' receipt of the emergency assistance they need. Traditional wireline telephone companies route emergency calls over a dedicated infrastructure directly to an emergency services dispatcher at the Public Safety Answering Point, or PSAP, in the caller's area. Generally, the dispatcher automatically receives the caller's phone number and actual location information. While the E-911 service we have deployed in the United States is designed to route calls in a fashion similar to traditional wireline services, our E-911 capabilities are not yet available from all locations. In addition, the only location information that our E-911 service can transmit to a dispatcher at a PSAP is the information that our customers have registered with us prior to the 9-1-1 call. A customer's registered location may be different from the customer's actual location at the time of the call because customers can use their Packet8 equipment to make calls from any broadband connection anywhere in the world. We are currently deploying E-911 service that is similar to the emergency calling services provided to customers of traditional wireline telephone companies in the same area. For those customers located in an E-911 area, emergency calls are routed, subject to the limitations discussed below, directly to an emergency services dispatcher at the PSAP in the area of the customer's registered location. The dispatcher will have automatic access to the customer's telephone number and registered location information. If a customer moves their Packet8 service to a new location, the customer's registered location information must be updated and verified by the customer. Until that takes place, the customer will have to verbally advise the emergency dispatcher of his or her actual location at the time of an emergency 9-1-1 call. This can lead to delays in the delivery of emergency services. The emergency calls of customers located in areas where we are currently unable to provide E-911 service as described above are supported by a national call center that is run by a third-party provider and operates 24 hours per day, seven days per week. These operators still receive the customer's registered service location and phone number automatically, and coordinate connecting the caller to the appropriate PSAP or emergency services provider and providing the customer's registered service 19 location and phone number to those local authorities, which can also delay the delivery of emergency services. In the event that a customer experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure were to occur, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider using our services. Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller's location or telephone number can result in life threatening consequences. Customers may, in the future, attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of any failure of our E-911 services and, unlike traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers, there are no state or federal provisions that currently indemnify or limit the liability of VoIP services such as ours for connecting and carrying emergency 9-1-1 phone calls over IP networks. In May 2005, the FCC unanimously adopted an order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPRM, which required VoIP providers that interconnect with the PSTN, or interconnected VoIP providers, to provide enhanced 9-1-1, or E-911, service. On November 7, 2005, the Enforcement Bureau of the FCC issued a notice to interconnected VoIP providers detailing the information required to be submitted to the FCC in E-911 compliance letters due by November 28, 2005. In this notice, the Enforcement Bureau stated that, although it would not require providers that had not achieved full E-911 compliance by November 28, 2005, to discontinue the provision of interconnected VoIP services to any existing customers, it did expect that such providers would discontinue marketing VoIP services, and accepting new customers for their services, in all areas where they are not transmitting 9-1-1 calls to the appropriate PSAP in full compliance with the Commission's rules. On November 28, 2005, we began offering nomadic E-911 service to all of our customers with United States service addresses, and began charging those customers an additional $1.99 per month plus any applicable local 9-1-1 taxes and surcharges effective January 1, 2006. On November 28, 2005, we also modified the Packet8 account signup procedures to require service addresses to be entered and validated, at the time an order for service is placed, to ascertain whether Packet8's nomadic E-911 service is available at that address. On November 28, 2005, we also filed our E-911 compliance report which is available on the FCC's website, at http://www.fcc.gov, under Wireline Competition Docket Number 05-196. On March 19, 2007, the Company received a letter from the Enforcement Bureau of the FCC requesting that the Company file an updated E-911 Status Report no later than April 11, 2007. On April 11, 2007, the Company responded to the FCC stating that 91% of the Company's subscribers are either in compliance with the VoIP 9-1-1 order or were signed up prior to November 28, 2005. We provide a nomadic emergency calling service to 100% of our subscribers who have a service location, as registered by the customer, within the United States. The FCC may determine that our nomadic emergency calling solution does not satisfy the requirements of its VoIP E-911 order because, in some instances, our nomadic emergency calling solution requires that we route an emergency call to a national emergency call center instead of connecting Packet8 subscribers directly to a local PSAP through a dedicated connection and through the appropriate selective router. The FCC may issue further guidance on compliance requirements in the future that might require us to disconnect those subscribers not receiving access to emergency services in a manner consistent with the VoIP E-911 order. The effect of such disconnections, monetary penalties, cease and desist orders or other enforcement actions initiated by the FCC or other agency or task force against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. On June 1, 2007, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in which it tentatively concluded that all interconnected VoIP service providers that allow customers to use their service in more than one location (nomadic VoIP service providers such as us) must utilize an automatic location technology that meets the same accuracy standards which apply to providers of commercial mobile radio services (mobile phone service providers). The outcome of this proceeding cannot be determined at this time and we may or may not be able to comply with any such obligations that may be adopted. At present, we currently have no means to automatically identify the physical location of one of our subscribers on the Internet. The FCC's VoIP E-911 order has increased our cost of doing business and may adversely affect our ability to deliver the Packet8 service to new and existing customers in all geographic regions or to nomadic customers who move to a location where emergency calling services compliant with the FCC's mandates are unavailable. Our compliance with and increased costs due to the FCC's VoIP E-911 order put us at a competitive disadvantage to those VoIP service providers who have chosen not to comply with the FCC's mandates. We cannot guarantee that emergency calling service consistent with the VoIP E-911 order will be available to all of our subscribers, especially those accessing our services from outside of the United States. The FCC's current VoIP E-911 order or follow-on orders or clarifications or their impact on our customers due to service price increases or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 20 There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with the requirements of federal law enforcement agencies. On August 5, 2005, the FCC unanimously adopted an order responsive to a joint petition filed by the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Drug Enforcement Administration asking the FCC to declare that broadband Internet access services and VoIP services be covered by the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA. The FCC, in a subsequent order released on May 12, 2006, required all interconnected VoIP providers to become fully CALEA compliant by May 14, 2007. The FCC allowed VoIP providers to comply with CALEA through the use of a solution provided by a trusted third party with the ability to extract call content and call-identifying information from a VoIP provider's network. While the FCC permits carriers to use the services provided these third parties to become CALEA compliant by the deadline, the carrier remains ultimately responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of call content and call-identifying information to law enforcement, and for protecting subscriber privacy, as required by CALEA. We selected a partner to work with us to develop a solution for CALEA compliant lawful interception of communications and, as of May 14, 2007, we had installed this solution in our network operations and data centers, but had not yet completed certification testing of all required intercept capabilities of this equipment. We are diligently working to complete the testing of this equipment in order to achieve full compliance with the FCC's order, but there are no guarantees that full compliance can be achieved. We could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC or law enforcement agencies if our CALEA solution does not become fully operational. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties if we are not able to comply with CALEA. Our failure to achieve compliance with any future CALEA orders, rules, filings or standards, or any enforcement action initiated by the FCC or other agency, state or task force against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with requirements of the Telecommunications Relay Service. On June 15, 2007, the FCC extended the disability access requirements of Sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act, which applied to traditional phone services, to providers of interconnected VoIP services and to manufacturers of specially designed equipment used to provide those services. In addition, the FCC determined that interconnected VoIP providers were subject to the requirements of Section 225, including contributing to the Telecommunications Relay Services, or TRS, fund and that they must offer 7-1-1 abbreviated dialing for access to relay services. While the rules became effective October 5, 2007, the FCC granted a limited waiver to interconnected VoIP providers concerning the 7-1-1 call routing requirement until March 31, 2009. Interconnected VoIP providers do not have to route such calls to the "appropriate relay center," meaning the relay center(s) serving the state in which the caller is geographically located or the relay center(s) associated with the caller's last registered address until the waiver period expires. As of April 5, 2008, we have implemented a 7-1-1 system which routes such calls to the appropriate relay center based upon the customer's assigned telephone number. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties if the FCC believes we are not compliant with these new disability requirements. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with the requirements of federal and other regulations related to Customer Proprietary Network Information (CPNI). On April 2, 2007, the FCC released an order extending the application of the customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, rules to interconnected VoIP providers. VoIP providers have six months from the effective date of the order to implement all the CPNI rules. CPNI includes information such as the phone numbers called by a consumer, the frequency, duration, and timing of such calls, and any services/features purchased by the consumer, such as call waiting, call forwarding, and caller ID, in addition to other information that may appear on a consumer's bill. Under the FCC's existing rules, carriers may not use CPNI without customer approval except in narrow circumstances related to the provision of existing services, and must comply with detailed customer approval processes when using CPNI outside of these narrow circumstances. The new CPNI requirements are also aimed at establishing more stringent security measures for access to a customer's CPNI data in the form of required passwords for on-line access and call-in access to account information as well as customer notification of account or password changes. At the present time, we do not utilize our customer's CPNI in a manner which would require us to obtain consent from our customers but, in the event that we do in the future, we will be required to adhere to specific CPNI rules aimed at marketing such services. By December 8, 2007, we implemented internal processes in order to be in compliance with all of the FCC's CPNI rules. Our failure to achieve compliance with any future CPNI orders, rules, filings or standards, or any enforcement action initiated by the FCC or other agency, state or task force against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 21 There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with funding requirements of the Universal Service Fund, or USF, Telecommunications Relay Service, or TRS, fund, federal regulatory recovery fees and similar state or federal funds, or that our customers will cancel service due to the impact of these price increases to their services. On June 21, 2006, the FCC expanded the base of Universal Service Fund, or USF, contributions to interconnected VoIP providers. The FCC established a safe harbor percentage of interstate revenue of 64.9% of total VoIP service revenue. We were allowed to calculate our contribution based on the safe harbor or by preparing a traffic study. We began contributing to the federal USF on October 1, 2006. For a period of at least two quarters beginning October 1, 2006, we were required to contribute to the USF for all subscribers' retail revenues as well as through its underlying carriers' wholesale charges. The FCC order applying USF contributions to interconnected VoIP providers was appealed and on June 1, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that the FCC was within its authority when it required interconnected VoIP service providers to contribute to the Universal Service Fund, though it struck down the provision of the order which required pre-approval of traffic studies by the FCC and the provision that required double contributions to the fund for two quarters from our underlying carriers' wholesale charges. There is a risk that state USF organizations may attempt to assert state USF and other state and local charges. At this time, several states contend that providers of interconnected VoIP services, like us, should contribute to their USF fund. We charge our subscribers a USF fee equal to the USF contribution amounts we must contribute based upon our subscribers' retail revenues. The impact of this price increase on our customers or our inability to recoup our costs or liabilities in remitting USF contributions or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The FCC and various state commissions are considering the imposition of additional fees on interconnected VoIP providers, like us. Several states are either considering extending or have imposed state USF, state TRS fees, and other taxes and fees on interconnected VoIP providers like us. If we pass through the taxes, fees and surcharges that may be applied to our service, the impact of this price increase on our customers or our inability to recoup our costs or liabilities in remitting such taxes, fees and surcharges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage to other providers who choose not to comply with these payment obligations. If we are unable to improve our process for local number portability provisioning, our growth may be negatively affected. We support local number portability, or LNP, for our customers, which allows our customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. Transferring numbers is a manual process that, in the past, has taken us 20 business days or longer, although we have taken steps to automate this process to reduce the delay. A new customer of our services must maintain both the new Packet8 service and the customer's existing telephone service during the number transfer process. By comparison, transferring wireless telephone numbers among wireless service providers generally takes several hours, and transferring wireline telephone numbers among traditional wireline service providers generally takes a few days. The additional delay that we experience is due to our reliance on third party carriers to transfer the numbers, as well as the delay the existing telephone service provider may contribute to the process. Local number portability is considered an important feature by many potential customers, especially our business customers, and if we fail to reduce related delays, we may experience increased difficulty in acquiring new customers or retaining existing customers. Moreover, the FCC now requires interconnected VoIP providers, like us, to comply with industry standard timeframes. If we are unable to process ports within the requisite timeframes, we could be subject to fines and/or penalties. Additionally, both customers and carriers may seek relief from the relevant state public utility commission, the FCC, and/or in state or federal court. During fiscal 2008, the FCC required interconnected VoIP providers to remit regulatory and local number portability fees. Our success also depends on our ability to handle a large number of simultaneous calls, which our network may not be able to accommodate. We expect the volume of simultaneous calls to increase significantly as the Packet8 subscriber base grows. Our network hardware and software may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. If we fail to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, or if our service is disrupted, our reputation could be hurt, we could lose customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 22 We could be liable for breaches of security on our web site, fraudulent activities of our users, or the failure of third-party vendors to deliver credit card transaction processing services. A fundamental requirement for operating an Internet-based, worldwide voice and video communications service and electronically billing our Packet8 customers is the secure transmission of confidential information and media over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled and states may enact their own rules with which we may not comply. We rely on third party providers to process and guarantee payments made by Packet8 subscribers up to certain limits, and we may be unable to prevent our customers from fraudulently receiving goods and services. Our liability risk will increase if a larger fraction of our Packet8 transactions involve fraudulent or disputed credit card transactions. Any costs we incur as a result of fraudulent or disputed transactions could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our current billing system relies on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, we will not be able to charge for our Packet8 services in a timely or scalable fashion, which could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have experienced losses due to subscriber fraud and theft of service. Subscribers have obtained access to the Packet8 service without paying for monthly service and international toll calls by unlawfully using our authorization codes or by submitting fraudulent credit card information. To date, such losses from unauthorized credit card transactions and theft of service have not been significant. We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to control losses relating to these practices, but these procedures may not be adequate to effectively limit all of our exposure in the future from fraud. If our procedures are not effective, consumer fraud and theft of service could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A higher rate of customer terminations would negatively affect our business by reducing our revenue or requiring us to spend more money to grow our customer base. Our rate of customer terminations, or average monthly customer churn, was 4.2% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Our churn rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with our service. Other factors, including increased competition from other VoIP providers, alternative technologies, and adverse business conditions also influence our churn rate. Because of churn, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expenditures are an ongoing requirement of our business. If our churn rate increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and those costs are an important factor in determining our net profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers or are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted, our revenue could decrease and our net income could decrease. Our success also depends on third parties in our distribution channels. We currently sell our products directly to consumers and through resellers, and are focusing efforts on diversifying and increasing our distribution channels. Our future revenue growth will depend, in large part, on sales of our products through reseller and other distribution relationships. We may not be successful in developing additional distribution relationships. Agreements with distribution partners generally provide for one-time or recurring commissions based on our list prices, and do not require minimum purchases or restrict development or distribution of competitive products. Therefore, entities that distribute our products may compete with us. In addition, distributors and resellers may not dedicate sufficient resources or give sufficient priority to selling our products. Our failure to develop new distribution channels, the loss of a distribution relationship or a decline in the efforts of a material reseller or distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period and may be difficult to predict. Our historical operating results have fluctuated significantly and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, and a decline in our operating results could cause our stock price to fall. On an annual and a quarterly basis, there are a number of factors that may affect our operating results, many of which are outside our control. These include, but are not limited to: 23 changes in market demand; the timing of customer orders; customer cancellations; competitive market conditions; lengthy sales cycles and/or regulatory approval cycles; new product introductions by us or our competitors; market acceptance of new or existing products; the cost and availability of components; the mix of our customer base and sales channels; the mix of products sold; the management of inventory; continued compliance with industry standards and regulatory requirements; and general economic conditions. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. We need to retain key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations. The development and marketing of our VoIP products will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees are bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell our products which could adversely affect our financial results and impair our growth. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. We may not be able to manage our inventory levels effectively, which may lead to inventory obsolescence that would force us to incur inventory write-downs. Our products have lead times of up to several months and are built to forecasts that are necessarily imprecise. Because of our practice of building our products to necessarily imprecise forecasts, it is likely that, from time to time, we will have either excess or insufficient product inventory. In addition, because we rely on third party vendors for the supply of components and contract manufacturers to assemble our products, our inventory levels are subject to the conditions regarding the timing of purchase orders and delivery dates that are not within our control. Excess inventory levels would subject us to the risk of inventory obsolescence, while insufficient levels of inventory may negatively affect relations with customers. For instance, our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of our products could result in legal action from our customers, loss of customers or harm to our ability to attract new customers. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The fair value of certain warrant liabilities may increase or decrease, and as a result, we may be required, pursuant to EITF 00-19, to reflect a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income or net loss, as the case may be, and the amount of our recorded liability for the warrants for the applicable quarter also may fluctuate materially. 24 Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-19, "Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to and Potentially Settled in a Company's Own Stock" ("EITF 00-19"), warrants issued to two investors in an equity financing we consummated in fiscal 2006 are classified as liabilities because of the possibility, however likely or unlikely, that the Company would be unable to deliver registered shares upon a future exercise of these warrants means that the warrants are deemed to include a "net cash settlement" provision within the meaning of EITF 00-19. The required accounting for a warrant with a "net cash settlement" provision under EITF 00-19 is to estimate the fair value on the date of issuance and to record a liability equal to that value to reflect the required assumption that the Company will breach its obligation to deliver registered shares in the future (which we refer to as a "presumed breach"). The warrants will continue to be recorded as liabilities until such time as the warrants are exercised, expire or we and the warrant holders amend the applicable warrant agreement in a manner that renders this accounting treatment unnecessary. In the event that at the end of any fiscal quarter the fair value of these warrants increases or decreases, we will be required to re-value the warrants and reflect such change for the applicable fiscal quarter in our financial statements in accordance with EITF 00-19. If the fair value at the end of any fiscal quarter increases, we will recognize a corresponding increase in expense for such fiscal quarter, as well as reflect a corresponding increase in our liabilities for such fiscal quarter, in accordance with EITF 00-19, resulting in a reduction of our stockholders' equity on our balance sheet for such fiscal quarter and a decrease in net income on our income statement for such fiscal quarter. If the fair value at the end of any fiscal quarter decreases, we will recognize a corresponding decrease in expense for such fiscal quarter, as well as reflect a corresponding decrease in our liabilities for such fiscal quarter, in accordance with EITF 00-19, resulting in an increase of our stockholders' equity on our balance sheet for such fiscal quarter and increase in net income on our income statement for such fiscal quarter. The amount we record as a liability under EITF 00-19 is not, nor do we intend for it to be, an admission or stipulation of the amount that we would owe or be obligated to pay the warrant holder in the event of an actual breach by us of the warrant terms. In fact, we have made no determination of the amount of liability, if any, that we would owe to the warrant holder in the event of such a breach. We may need to raise additional capital to support our future operations. As of March 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents and investments of approximately $14.6 million. While we believe these funds are sufficient to meet our current and anticipated liquidity requirements, we may need to raise additional capital. We may not be able to obtain such additional financing as needed on acceptable terms, or at all, which may require us to reduce our operating costs and other expenditures, including reductions of personnel and capital expenditures. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders would be reduced and they may experience significant dilution. New investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we are not successful in these actions, we may be forced to cease operations. Our stock price has been highly volatile. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. It may be significantly affected by factors such as: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technical innovations; future legislation or regulation of the Internet and/or VoIP; loss of key personnel; new entrants into the VOIP service marketplace, including cable and incumbent telephone companies and other well-capitalized competitors; new products or new contracts by us, our competitors or their customers; the perceived or real impact of events that negatively affect our direct competitors; and developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, general market conditions, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, and other factors which could be unrelated to, or outside of, our control. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating 25 performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against the issuing company. If our stock price is volatile, we may also be subject to such litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would disrupt business and could cause a decline in our operating results. Any settlement or adverse determination in such litigation would also subject us to significant liability. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which has certain compliance requirements for continued listing of common stock. We have, in the past, been subject to delisting procedures due to a drop in the price of our common stock. If our minimum closing bid price per share falls below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days in the future, we may again be subject to delisting procedures. As of the close of business on May 20, 2008, our common stock had a closing bid price of approximately $1.15 per share. We also must meet additional continued listing requirements contained in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(b), which requires that we have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities held by non-affiliates or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year (or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years). As of May 20, 2008, based on our closing price as of that day, the market value of our securities held by non-affiliates approximated $70,622,000 and we were in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(b). There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the continued listing requirements. Delisting could reduce the ability of our shareholders to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically. For instance, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our common stock. Not maintaining our NASDAQ Capital Market listing may: result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock; lessen interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our common stock; make it more difficult to obtain analyst coverage; and make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 