ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results or could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statement made in this report: Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Future Capital Requirements Our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials did not meet the co-primary and secondary endpoints, and it is possible that in light of such data, we may terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, which could impact negatively our ability to obtain future funding and enter into strategic transactions. Our lead product in development has been LibiGel for the treatment of FSD, specifically HSDD, in postmenopausal women, for which there is no FDA-approved pharmaceutical product. Initial analysis of the efficacy data from our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials shows that the trials did not meet the co-primary or secondary endpoints. Although the results indicated that LibiGel performed as predicted based on previous experience with testosterone products for FSD, the placebo response in the two efficacy trials was overwhelming and unpredictable; and therefore, LibiGel’s results were not shown to be statistically different from placebo. The LibiGel Phase III safety study continues and will continue during further analysis of the LibiGel efficacy data and until a final strategic decision has been made. It is our objective to meet with the FDA to determine the best path forward, and to make a decision during the second quarter of 2012 whether to continue the LibiGel Phase III safety study. It is possible that we may terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, including the Phase III safety study, which, among other things, could harm our ability to obtain future funding and enter into strategic transactions. Even if we decide to continue the LibiGel Phase III safety study, we may have difficulty obtaining future funding and entering into strategic transactions. We have not generated significant revenues and do not expect to in the near future. We have a history of operating losses, expect continuing losses and may never become profitable. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been derived from upfront and milestone payments earned on licensing transactions, revenue earned from subcontracts and royalty revenue. In order to generate new and significant revenues, we must develop and commercialize successfully our own products or enter into strategic partnering agreements with others who can develop and commercialize them successfully, or acquire additional new products that generate or have the potential to generate revenues. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our and our strategic partners’ product development programs and our ability to acquire additional new products, we are unable to predict when we will be able to generate significant revenue or become profitable, if at all. We incurred a net loss of $51.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and as of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $217.2 million. We expect to continue to incur substantial and continuing losses for the foreseeable future. These losses may increase as we explore strategic alternatives and if we enter into a strategic transaction. Even if our approved products, products in development or any additional new products we may acquire or in-license are introduced commercially, they may never achieve market acceptance and we may never generate sufficient revenues or receive sufficient license fees or royalties on our licensed products and technologies in order to achieve or sustain future profitability. 20 Table of Contents Because we have no source of significant recurring revenue, we must depend on financing or partnering to sustain our operations. We may need to raise substantial additional capital or enter into strategic partnering agreements to fund our operations and we may be unable to raise such funds or enter into strategic partnering agreements when needed and on acceptable terms. Developing products requires substantial amounts of capital. In particular, if we decide to continue our LibiGel Phase III safety study or if we in-license additional new products that require further development, we may need additional capital. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: · the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular if we decide to continue our LibiGel Phase III safety study or if we in-license additional new products that require further development; · the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory actions with respect to our products; · our ability to obtain value from our current products and technologies and our ability to out-license our products and technologies to third parties for development and commercialization and the terms of such out-licensings; · our ability to acquire or in-license additional new products and technologies and the costs and expenses of such acquisitions or licenses; · the timing and amount of any royalties, milestone or other payments we may receive from or be obligated to pay to current and potential licensors, licensees and other third parties; · the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the emergence of competing products and technologies, and other adverse market developments; · the perceived, potential and actual commercial success of our products; · the outstanding principal amount of our 3.125% convertible senior notes due May 1, 2013 (convertible senior notes) that are scheduled to mature and become due and payable on May 1, 2013 and our ability to avoid a “fundamental change” or an “event of default” under the indenture governing such notes, which may cause such notes to become due and payable prior to their maturity date on May 1, 2013; · our operating expenses; · the resolution of pending litigation; and · the success, progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, licenses and other business combinations or transactions, and our efforts to evaluate various strategic alternatives available with respect to our products and our company. Our future capital requirements and projected expenditures are based upon numerous assumptions and subject to many uncertainties, and actual requirements and expenditures may differ significantly from 21 Table of Contents our projections. To date, we have relied primarily upon proceeds from sales of our equity securities to finance our business and operations. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $57.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. We do not have any existing credit facilities under which we may borrow funds. Absent the receipt of any additional licensing income or financing, we expect our cash and cash equivalents balance to decrease as we continue to use cash to fund our operations, including in particular our LibiGel Phase III safety study if we decide to continue such study. As of March 12, 2012, we had $11.8 million in principal amount of convertible senior notes outstanding that mature on May 1, 2013. Assuming we continue our LibiGel Phase III safety study, we expect our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 to meet our liquidity requirements through mid 2013. If we terminate our LibiGel Phase III safety study and assuming we do so during the second quarter of 2012 and assuming no other corporate product development and activities, we expect our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity requirements through late 2014. These estimates may prove incorrect or we, nonetheless, may choose to raise additional financing earlier in order to create a “cash cushion” and take advantage of favorable financing conditions. The announcement of the results of our LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials has significantly depressed the trading price of our common stock and if we terminate our LibiGel Phase III safety study, the trading price of our common stock could be depressed further and harm our ability to raise additional capital. We can provide no assurance that additional financing, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. This is particularly true if investors are not confident in the future value of our company, we lose the NASDAQ listing of our common stock and/or economic and market conditions deteriorate. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms when we need them, we may need to cut our operating costs further or we may be forced to explore other strategic alternatives, such as selling or merging our company or winding down our operations and liquidating our company. In such case, our stockholders could lose some or all of their investment. Raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, raising additional funds by issuing additional debt financing may restrict our operations and raising additional funds through licensing arrangements may require us to relinquish proprietary rights. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be diluted significantly, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance of any equity securities could be at a discount to the market pice. If we incur additional debt financing, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on the ability of us to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. There is no assurance that any equity or debt financing transaction will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. As an alternative to raising additional financing by issuing additional equity or debt securities, we may choose to license one or more of our products or technologies to a third party who may finance a portion or all of the continued development and, if approved, commercialization of that licensed product, sell certain assets or rights under our existing license agreements or enter into other business collaborations or combinations, including the possible sale of our company. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish greater or all rights to our products at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we otherwise would choose. 22 Table of Contents As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we have substantial indebtedness, in the form of convertible senior notes, which notes we may not be able to pay when they become due and payable on May 1, 2013, or earlier if we experience a “fundamental change” or an “event of default” under the indenture governing such notes. As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we assumed $22.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, $11.8 million of which remain outstanding as of March 12, 2012. The annual interest payment on these notes is approximately $0.4 million. At maturity, on May 1, 2013, the entire then remaining aggregate outstanding principal amount of our convertible senior notes will become due and payable. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change”, holders of our convertible senior notes may require us to purchase their notes prior to the May 1, 2013 maturity date. A fundamental change includes a significant change in our ownership; the first day the majority of our board of directors does not consist of continuing directors; the consummation of certain recapitalizations, reclassifications, or changes of common stock, share exchanges or consolidations or mergers; or the termination of trading of our common stock (which will be deemed to have occurred if our common stock is neither listed for trading on a United States national securities exchange nor any United States system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices or traded in over-the-counter securities markets). Additionally, the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding convertible senior notes will become due and payable upon an uncured or unwaived event of default. We do not have any significant source of revenues; and thus, although we intend to seek additional financing to support our operations and pay the aggregate outstanding principal amount of our convertible senior notes, it is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay the aggregate principal amount of our then outstanding convertible senior notes when they mature on May 1, 2013, or become due and payable earlier if we were to experience a “fundamental change” or an “event of default” under the indenture governing such notes. The indentures governing our convertible senior notes contains covenants, which if not complied with, could result in an event of default and the acceleration of all amounts due under the notes. The indenture governing our convertible senior notes contains covenants, such as the requirement to pay accrued interest on May 1 and November 1 of each year, the requirement to repurchase the notes upon a “fundamental change,” as defined in the indenture, if a note holder so elects and the requirement to file periodic reports electronically with the SEC. If we do not comply with the covenants in the indenture, an event of default could occur and all amounts due under the notes could become immediately due and payable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture, the trustee has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all such indebtedness, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable. Although it is possible we could negotiate a waiver with the trustee and the holders of the notes, such a waiver likely would involve significant costs. It also is possible that we could refinance or restructure our obligations under the notes; however, such a refinancing or restructuring also likely would involve significant costs and would likely result in higher interest rates than the current 3.125% annual interest rate on the notes. Future purchases, exchanges or restructurings of our outstanding convertible senior notes could dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders, result in the issuance of securities at a discount to market price or that may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders and/or decrease our cash balance. In February 2012, we entered into privately-negotiated securities exchange agreements with one of the holders of our convertible senior notes pursuant to which we issued an aggregate of approximately 11.2 million shares of our common stock to the note holder in exchange for cancellation of an aggregate of $9.0 million principal amount of our convertible senior notes, including accrued and unpaid interest. 23 Table of Contents As a result of such exchange, an aggregate of $11.8 million principal amount of the convertible senior notes remained outstanding as of March 12, 2012. From time to time, we may again purchase, exchange or restructure our outstanding convertible senior notes through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other equity securities of our company, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions and/or a tender offer. Such additional purchases, exchanges or restructurings, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our available cash and cash equivalents, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Such future purchases, exchanges or restructurings could dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders, result in the issuance of securities at a discount to market price or that may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders and/or decrease our cash balance. A significant decrease in our cash balance may impair our ability to execute strategic alternatives or leave us without sufficient cash remaining for operations. We are subject to pending purported securities class action litigation, which could divert management’s attention, harm our business and/or reputation and result in significant liabilities, as well as harm our ability to raise additional financing. As described in more detail under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this report, we, along with our President and Chief Executive Officer, are defendants in purported securities class action litigation, alleging that certain of our disclosures relating to the efficacy of LibiGel and its commercial potential were false and/or misleading and that such false and/or misleading statements had the effect of artificially inflating the price of our securities resulting in violations of Section 10(b), Rule 10b-5 and Section 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of persons who purchased our securities during the period, depending on the complaint, between as early as February 8, 2010 to December 15, 2011 and seek unspecified compensatory damages, equitable and/or injunctive relief, and reasonable costs, expert fees and attorneys’ fees on behalf of such purchasers. While we believe the actions are without merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously, additional lawsuits may be filed and, at this time because the litigation is in its early stages, we are unable to predict the outcome of the lawsuits, the possible loss or range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of the lawsuits or any potential effect they may have on our company or our operations. Such litigation, however, could divert management’s attention, harm our business and/or reputation and result in significant liabilities, as well as harm our ability to raise additional financing. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Market requirements and The NASDAQ Stock Market determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could affect adversely the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your shares and harm our ability to raise additional financing. Our common stock currently is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. On January 31, 2012, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). The notification letter stated that pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we will be afforded 180 calendar days, or until July 30, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock must maintain a minimum bid closing price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by July 30, 2012, we may transfer our common stock listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market and be eligible for an additional 180-day grace period if we meet the market value of publicly held shares requirement for continued listing and all other initial inclusion requirements for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, other than the minimum bid price requirement. In order to be afforded the additional 180-day compliance period, we also would need to provide 24 Table of Contents NASDAQ written notice of our intention to cure the minimum bid price deficiency during the second compliance period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. If we do not indicate our intent to cure the deficiency or if it does not appear to NASDAQ that it is possible for us to cure the deficiency, we will not be eligible for the second 180-day grace period and our common stock will be subject to delisting, which delisting determination we may appeal to a hearings panel at that time. The closing bid price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market was $0.74 on March 12, 2012. While we intend to engage in efforts to regain compliance, and thus maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance during the applicable time periods set forth above or keep our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market or transfer our listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market. Stocks trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market rather than The NASDAQ Global Market tend to be more volatile and less liquid as trading volumes are generally significantly lower on The NASDAQ Capital Market than The NASDAQ Global Market. Furthermore, if we fail to meet all applicable NASDAQ Stock Market requirements and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could decrease substantially trading in our common stock, affect adversely the market liquidity of our common stock, decrease the trading price of our common stock, increase the volatility of our stock price, decrease analyst coverage of our common stock, decrease investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume of our common stock, make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock and harm our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, if our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock also might become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of stockholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of our common stock can result in an individual stockholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if the price of our common stock were higher. This factor also may limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. If we decide to terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, we may incur significant costs, which could affect adversely our operating results and financial condition. If we decide to terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, including the Phase III safety study, we may terminate the employment of several of our employees, whose duties entail the coordination of our safety study, in order to cut costs and decrease our operating expenses. We also may decide to take other actions to reduce our operating expenses. Such actions likely would affect adversely our operating results at least in the near term and could result in significant cash outlays. In connection with such cost savings measures if we decide to undertake them, we may experience: · higher costs than we anticipated; 25 Table of Contents · difficulties in completing our cost savings measures within the budgeted time; · diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; and · lower than expected future benefits due to unforeseen or changing business conditions. If we experience any or all of the foregoing, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we possess not only all of the assets but also all of the liabilities of Cell Genesys. Discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions often involve known and unknown risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems. In October 2008, in view of the termination of both its VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 Phase III clinical trials, Cell Genesys discontinued further development of its GVAX cancer vaccines for prostate cancer. Cell Genesys subsequently implemented a substantial restructuring plan to wind down its business operations and seek strategic alternatives. Under the restructuring plan, Cell Genesys terminated approximately 280 employees, closed two facilities and terminated two leases. As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we possess not only all of the assets, but also all of the potential liabilities of Cell Genesys. Although we conducted a due diligence investigation of Cell Genesys and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, and no new liabilities have arisen to date it is possible that undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems may arise, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials did not meet the co-primary and secondary endpoints, and it is possible that in light of such data, we may decide to terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, which could harm our business and further disappoint our stockholders and cause our stock price to decrease. Our lead near term product in development has been LibiGel for the treatment of FSD, specifically HSDD, in postmenopausal women, for which there is no FDA-approved product. Initial analysis of the efficacy data from our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials shows that the trials did not meet the co-primary or secondary endpoints. The LibiGel Phase III safety study continues and will continue until a final strategic decision has been made. It is our objective to meet with the FDA to determine the best path forward, and to make a decision during the second quarter of 2012 whether to continue the LibiGel Phase III safety study. If we decide to terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, including the LibiGel Phase III safety study, our decision could harm our business, further disappoint our stockholders and cause our stock price to decline. If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. At this time we are seeking to acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: · the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; 26 Table of Contents · disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; · difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; · difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; · the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; · difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: · issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; · the use of significant amounts of cash; · the incurrence of additional debt; · the assumption of significant liabilities; · increased operating costs and losses; · financing obtained on unfavorable terms; · large one-time expenses; and · the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges. Any of these factors could materially harm our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. If we reallocate our resources to other products and technologies in our current product portfolio or any additional new products and technologies that we may acquire or in-license, we may not be successful in developing such products and technologies and we will be subject to all the risks and uncertainties associated with research and development of products and technologies. We may explore the possibility of reallocating our resources towards other products and technologies in our current product portfolio or any additional new products and technologies that we may acquire or in-license. We cannot guarantee that any such allocation would result in the identification and successful development of one or more approved and commercially viable products. The development of products and technologies is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: 27 Table of Contents · the time, costs and uncertainty associated with the clinical testing required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products and obtain regulatory approvals; · the ability to raise sufficient funds to fund the research and development of our products; · the ability to find third party strategic partners to assist or share in the costs of product development, and potential dependence on such strategic partners, to the extent we rely on them for future sales, marketing or distribution; · the ability to protect the intellectual property rights associated with our products; · litigation; · competition; · ability to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements; · government restrictions on the pricing and profitability of products in the United States and elsewhere; and · the extent to which third-party payers, including government agencies, private health care insurers and other health care payers, such as health maintenance organizations, and self-insured employee plans, will cover and pay for newly approved therapies. Although our male testosterone gel recently was approved by the FDA, we are uncertain as to when Teva will begin to market and sell our male testosterone gel and thus when we would begin to receive royalties from such sales in light of Teva’s settlement agreement with a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories. Our male testosterone gel initially was developed by us, and then licensed by us to Teva for late stage clinical development. Teva submitted a New Drug Application, which NDA was approved by the FDA in February 2012. Subsequent to Teva submitting the NDA, in April 2011, a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories, a marketer of a testosterone gel for men, filed a complaint against Teva alleging patent infringement. In its NDA filing, Teva asserted that the male testosterone gel subject to the NDA does not infringe any patent listed in the FDA Orange Book related to Abbott Laboratories’ testosterone gel for men. The Teva/Abbott Laboratories patent infringement litigation was settled in December 2011; however, the terms of the settlement agreement are confidential and have not been publicly disclosed. To the extent Teva has agreed with the subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories to delay the commercial launch of our male testosterone gel, the settlement agreement could delay our receipt of royalties based on sales of our male testosterone gel by Teva. Several of our products are in the human clinical development stages and, depending on the product, likely will not be approved by regulatory authorities or introduced commercially for at least several years and likely more, if at all. Several of our products are in the human clinical development stages and will require further development, preclinical and clinical testing and investment prior to obtaining required regulatory approvals and commercialization in the United States and abroad. Other than Elestrin and our male testosterone gel, none of our products has been approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and accordingly none of our products have been introduced commercially and most are not expected to be for several years and likely more, if at all. Some of our products are not in active development. We currently 28 Table of Contents are evaluating whether to continue our LibiGel clinical development program. We cannot assure you that any of our products in human clinical development will: · be developed successfully; · prove to be safe and effective in clinical studies; · meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; · demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; · be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; · obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or · be marketed successfully or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to manufacture commercially or sell any of our future products, or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of our products. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell any of our products in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we must obtain the approval of the FDA for each product or drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process typically is very lengthy and expensive, and approval never is certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development eventually are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, the credibility of our management, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity would be affected adversely. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review and we may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product if previously unknown problems with the product or our manufacture of the product subsequently are discovered. The FDA also may require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. To obtain regulatory approval to market many of our products, costly and lengthy human clinical trials are required, and the results of the studies and trials are highly uncertain. As part of the FDA approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense or the expense of current or potential licensees or other entities, clinical trials in human subjects on each of our products. We expect the number of human clinical trials that the FDA will require will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular product. Depending on the stage of development, may need to perform multiple pre-clinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin human clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our products. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in pre-clinical studies on animals, the results in humans may be different. 29 Table of Contents After we have conducted pre-clinical studies in animals, if required, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for use in the target human population in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. The data obtained from pre-clinical and human clinical testing are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We face the risk that the results of our clinical trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. As an example, our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials did not meet the co-primary endpoints of increase in satisfying sexual events and increase in desire and the secondary endpoint of decrease in distress even though treatment with LibiGel in our Phase II clinical trial significantly increased satisfying sexual events and showed LibiGel significantly increased the number of satisfying sexual events by 238 percent versus baseline and a significant increase versus placebo. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal or human testing. Adverse or inconclusive human clinical results would prevent us from submitting for regulatory approval of our products. With respect to LibiGel, we still are deciding whether to continue to pursue our LibiGel clinical development program. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: · slow subject enrollment; · timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; · longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or safety; · new or additional trials or studies that are designed differently in order to increase the chances of demonstrating efficacy or safety; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated subjects; · lack of effectiveness of the product being tested; and · lack of funding. Delays in our clinical trials could allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products and thus can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. The process for obtaining approval of an NDA is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. Most of our products in development will require the submission and approval of an NDA in order to obtain required approval by the FDA to commercially market the product. The FDA conducts in-depth reviews of NDAs to determine whether to approve products for commercial marketing for the indications proposed. If the FDA is not satisfied with the information provided, the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA or may require a company to perform additional studies or provide other information in order to secure approval. The FDA may delay, limit or refuse to approve an NDA for many reasons, including: · the information submitted may be insufficient to demonstrate that a product is safe and effective; 30 Table of Contents · the FDA might not approve the processes or facilities of a company, or those of its vendors, that will be used for the commercial manufacture of a product; or · the FDA’s interpretation of the nonclinical, clinical or manufacturing data provided in an NDA may differ from a company’s interpretation of such data. If the FDA determines that the clinical studies submitted for a product candidate in support of an NDA are not conducted in full compliance with the applicable protocols for these studies, as well as with applicable regulations and standards, or if the FDA does not agree with a company’s interpretation of the results of such studies, the FDA may reject the data that resulted from such studies. The rejection of data from clinical studies required to support an NDA could affect negatively a company’s ability to obtain marketing authorization for a product and would have a material adverse effect on a company’s business and financial condition. In addition, an NDA may not be approved, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in FDA policies for drug approval during development or the review period. We may not achieve projected goals and objectives in the time periods that we anticipate or announce publicly, which could have an adverse effect on our business and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We set goals and objectives for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments and milestones regarding our business, such as the initiation and completion of clinical studies, the completion of enrollment for clinical studies, the submission of applications for regulatory approvals, the receipt of regulatory approvals and other developments and milestones. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors including without limitation delays or failures in our current clinical studies, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to our programs by us and our current and potential future strategic partners and the uncertainties inherent in the clinical studies and regulatory approval process. As a result, there can be no assurance that clinical studies involving our products in development will advance or be completed in the time periods that we or our strategic partners announce or expect, that we or our current and potential future strategic partners will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we or our current and potential future strategic partners will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our development programs. If we or any of our strategic partners fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our business could be affected adversely and materially and the price of our common stock could decline. As an example, prior to our receipt of the results from our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials in December 2011, our objective with respect to LibiGel was to submit an NDA in 2012. This is no longer a realistic objective of ours in light of the fact that our two pivotal LibiGel Phase III efficacy trials did not meet the co-primary and secondary endpoints, and it is possible that in light of such data, we may decide to terminate our LibiGel Phase III clinical development program entirely. We also disclose from time to time projected financial information, including our cash position and anticipated cash burn rate and other expenditures, for future periods. These financial projections are based on management’s current expectations and do not contain any margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties, or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. If the market opportunities for our products are smaller than we anticipate, then our future revenues and business may be affected adversely. From time to time, we disclose estimated market opportunity data for our products and products in development. Although we believe we have a reasonable basis for our market opportunity estimates, our estimates may prove to be incorrect. If the market opportunities for our products are smaller than we 31 Table of Contents anticipate, our anticipated revenues from the sales or licensure of such products will be lower than we anticipate. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could affect adversely the market for our hormone therapy products and the trading price of our common stock. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products may exceed the benefits from the use of those products among postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the NIH released data from its WHI study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin for an average of 5.2 year follow-up among postmenopausal women. Also, in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom also was halted. Our products differ from the products used in the WHI study and the primary products observed in the National Cancer Institute and United Kingdom studies. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment. Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Recent reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. There currently are no studies published comparing the safety of our products against other hormone therapies. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms declined as a result of these published studies, although the market now seems to have stabilized. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse effects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to our products, also could affect adversely our business and likely decrease our stock price. If clinical studies for our products are terminated, prolonged or delayed, it may be difficult for us to find a strategic partner to assist us in the development and commercialization of our non-partnered products or commercialize such products on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay or prevent our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales or licenses. We may encounter problems with our completed, ongoing or planned clinical studies for our products that may cause us or the FDA to delay, suspend or terminate those studies or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of, or cause us to suspend or terminate our ongoing and planned clinical studies for our products and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval or enter into strategic partnerships for, or market or sell, a particular product: 32 Table of Contents · conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical studies; · delay in developing, or our inability to obtain, a clinical dosage form, insufficient supply or deficient quality of our products or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical studies; · negative or inconclusive results from clinical studies, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical study or termination of a clinical program; · serious and/or unexpected product-related side effects experienced by subjects in our clinical studies; or · failure of our third-party contractors or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Regulatory authorities, clinical investigators, institutional review boards, data safety monitoring boards and the sites at which our clinical studies are conducted all have the power to stop or recommend stopping our clinical studies prior to completion. Our clinical studies for our products in development may not begin as planned, may need to be amended, suspended or terminated and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. This is particularly true if we no longer believe we can obtain regulatory approval for a particular product or if we no longer have the financial resources to dedicate to a clinical development program for a particular product. We rely on a few third parties to assist us in certain aspects of our clinical studies. If these third parties do not perform as required contractually or expected, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product being tested in such studies. We rely on a few third parties, such as medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist us in certain aspect of our clinical studies. We are responsible for confirming that our studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on these few third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. If the third parties assisting us with certain aspects of our clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product being tested in such studies. In addition, if a third party fails to perform as agreed, our ability to collect damages may be limited contractually. Our products will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals, and the sale of any future products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product in development, the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority could condition approval on conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the scope of our approved labeling or could impose burdensome post-approval 33 Table of Contents obligations under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS. If required, a REMS may include various elements, such as publication of a medication guide, a patient package insert, a communication plan to educate healthcare providers of the drug’s risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug or other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market, cause the FDA to impose additional REMS obligations or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, we will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing approval, the FDA imposes extensive regulatory requirements on the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any future products, suppliers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · restrictions on the products, suppliers or manufacturing processes; · warning letters or untitled letters; · civil or criminal penalties or fines; · injunctions; · product seizures, detentions or import bans; · voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · total or partial suspension of production; and · refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. We intend to enter into additional strategic relationships with third parties to help develop and commercialize our products in development. If we do not enter into such relationships, we will need to undertake development and commercialization efforts on our own, which would be costly and could delay our ability to obtain required approvals for and commercialize our future products. A key element of our business strategy is our intent to partner selectively with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies to obtain assistance for commercialization and, in some cases, development of our products. For example, we have a strategic relationship with Jazz Pharmaceuticals with respect to Elestrin, with Teva with respect to our male testosterone gel, with Pantarhei Science with respect to The Pill Plus and with several third parties with respect to our GVAX cancer vaccines. We currently do not have a strategic partner for LibiGel, although we may not need a strategic partner for LibiGel if we decide to terminate the LibiGel Phase III clinical development program. We intend to enter into additional strategic relationships with third parties to develop, and if regulatory approval is obtained commercialize, our products in development, including in particular LibiGel if we decide to continue the LibiGel Phase III clinical development program, and any additional 34 Table of Contents new products we may acquire or in-license. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic relationships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate additional strategic relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional strategic relationships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing such relationships. If we are unable to negotiate additional strategic relationships for our products, we may be forced to curtail the development of a particular product, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization, reduce the scope of anticipated sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. In addition, we would then bear all the risk related to the development and commercialization of that product. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our products in development and any additional new products we may acquire or in-license if they receive regulatory approvals to market and generate product revenue. If we are unable to partner with a third party and obtain assistance for the potential commercialization of our products, if approved for commercial sale, we would need to establish our own sales and marketing capabilities, which involves risk. We do not have an internal sales and marketing organization and we have limited experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales capabilities and increasing our marketing capabilities, as well as entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Developing an internal sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. On the other hand, if we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, revenues from sales of the product or the profitability of these product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. Although our preferred alternative would be to engage a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution systems to sell, market and distribute our products, if approved for commercial sale, if we are unable to engage such a sales and marketing partner, we may need to establish our own specialty sales force. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any future products without strategic partners or licensees include: · our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; · the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products; · the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and · unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. Because the establishment of sales and marketing capabilities depends on the progress towards commercialization of our products and because of the numerous risks and uncertainties involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities, we are unable to predict when, if ever, we will establish our own sales and marketing capabilities. If we are not able to partner with additional third 35 Table of Contents parties and are unsuccessful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our products, which would harm our business and financial condition. Our current strategic relationships and any future additional strategic relationships we may enter into involve risks with respect to the development and commercialization of our products. A key element of our business strategy is to selectively partner with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies to obtain assistance for commercialization and, in some cases, development of our products. For example, we have strategic relationships with Jazz Pharmaceuticals with respect to Elestrin, with Teva with respect to our male testosterone gel and with Pantarhei Science with respect to The Pill Plus and several third parties with respect to our GVAX cancer vaccines. Our current strategic relationships and any future additional strategic relationships we may enter into involve a number of risks, including: · business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner’s business strategy may affect adversely a strategic partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; · we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of our partnered products; · strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a partnered product, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product for clinical testing; · strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of partnered products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to delay research and development programs or commercialization of a partnered product; · strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of our partnered products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; · disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our partnered products or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and consumes resources; · strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; · strategic partners may not maintain properly or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; · strategic partners independently could move forward with competing products developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and · strategic partners could terminate or delay the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development or commercialization of the partnered product and may increase the cost of developing or commercializing the partnered product. 36 Table of Contents As an example, our male testosterone gel was developed initially by us and then licensed to Teva for late stage clinical development. Teva submitted an NDA for our male testosterone gel that was approved by the FDA in February 2012. Subsequent to Teva submitting the NDA, in April 2011, a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories, a marketer of a testosterone gel for men, filed a complaint against Teva alleging patent infringement. The Teva/Abbott Laboratories patent infringement litigation was settled in December 2011; however, the terms of the settlement agreement are confidential and have not been publicly disclosed. To the extent Teva has agreed with the subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories to delay the commercial launch of our male testosterone gel, the settlement agreement could delay our receipt of royalties based on sales of our male testosterone gel by Teva. Although we maintain the right to receive sales-based milestones of up to $140 million, our ability to receive these milestones is dependent upon Jazz Pharmaceuticals’ ability to market and sell Elestrin, and based on Elestrin sales during 2011, we believe it is unlikely that we will receive any sales-based milestone payments from Jazz Pharmaceuticals in the foreseeable future, or at all. Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (which acquired Azur) is marketing Elestrin in the U.S. In December 2009, we entered into an amendment to our original licensing agreement with Azur pursuant to which we received $3.16 million in non-refundable payments in exchange for the elimination of all remaining future royalty payments and certain milestone payments that could have been paid to us related to sales of Elestrin. We continue to recognize certain royalty revenue from sales of Elestrin; however, such revenue is offset by our corresponding obligation to pay royalties to Antares, from whom we licensed the technology underlying our Elestrin product. We maintain the right to receive up to $140 million in sales-based milestone payments from Jazz Pharmaceuticals if Elestrin reaches certain predefined sales per calendar year. We cannot assure you that Jazz Pharmaceuticals will be successful in marketing Elestrin, Elestrin will be accepted widely in the marketplace or that Jazz Pharmaceuticals will remain focused on the commercialization of Elestrin, especially if Jazz Pharmaceuticals does not experience significant Elestrin sales. Based on current sales of Elestrin, we believe it is unlikely that we will receive any sales-based milestone payments from Jazz Pharmaceuticals in the foreseeable future, or at all. If our products in development receive FDA approval and are introduced commercially, they may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could harm our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The commercial success of our products in development, if they receive the required FDA or other regulatory approvals, and the commercial success of our male testosterone gel, which recently received FDA approval, are dependent upon acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. Levels of market acceptance for such products, if approved for commercial sale with respect to our products in development, could be affected by several factors, including: · demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials with respect to our products in development; · the existence, prevalence and severity of any side effects; · the availability of competitive or alternative treatments and potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages compared to competitive or alternative treatments; · the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; · relative convenience, product dependability and ease of administration; 37 Table of Contents · the strength of marketing and distribution support; · the sufficiency of coverage and reimbursement of our products by third-party payors and governmental and other payors; and · the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Some of these factors are not within our control, especially if we have transferred all of the marketing rights associated with the product, as we have with the U.S. marketing rights to Elestrin to Jazz Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. development and marketing rights to our male testosterone gel to Teva. Our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by our industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the use, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and in the future may result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could harm our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Even if we or our strategic partners successfully develop, obtain required regulatory approvals and commercialize any of our products under development, we face uncertainty with respect to pricing, third-party reimbursement and healthcare reform, all of which could affect adversely the commercial success of our products. Our ability to collect significant revenues from sales of our products, if approved and commercialized, may depend on our ability, and the ability of any current or potential future strategic partners or customers, to obtain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for such products from third-party payers such as: · private health insurers; · health maintenance organizations; · pharmacy benefit management companies; · government health administration authorities; and · other healthcare-related organizations. Third party payers increasingly are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, or foreign equivalent, or other government regulators, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Prices also could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we or any of our strategic partners may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. 38 Table of Contents In both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our products, which could affect adversely our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to as the PPACA. This legislation may have far reaching consequences for life science companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals and medical devices. If reimbursement for our products, if approved, is substantially less that we expect in the future, our business could be affected materially and adversely. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and the results of healthcare reforms such as the PPACA may prevent us from maintaining prices for our products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our approved products are marketed outside of the United States, foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We and our licensees depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our products and if these third parties do not manufacture successfully these products our business would be harmed. We have no manufacturing experience or manufacturing capabilities for the production of our products for our clinical studies or, if approved, commercial sale. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products following approval, if obtained, we or our licensees must be able to manufacture or contract with third parties to manufacture our products in clinical and commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our products may be complex, difficult to accomplish and difficult to scale-up when large-scale production is required. Manufacture may be subject to delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If supplies of any of our products become unavailable on a timely basis or at all or are contaminated or otherwise lost, our clinical studies could be seriously delayed or compromised, and with respect to our approved products, our future revenue from royalties and milestone payments could be affected adversely. 39 Table of Contents To the extent that we or our licensees enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we and such licensees will depend upon these third parties to perform our obligations in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. Contract manufacturers may breach their manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Our existing and future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. If a natural disaster, business failure, strike or other difficulty occurs, we may be unable to replace these contract manufacturers in a timely or cost-effective manner and the production of our products would be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Switching manufacturers or manufacturing sites would be difficult and time-consuming because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. In addition, before a product from any replacement manufacturer or manufacturing site can be commercialized, the FDA must approve that site. This approval would require regulatory testing and compliance inspections. A new manufacturer or manufacturing site also would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products. It may be difficult or impossible to transfer certain elements of a manufacturing process to a new manufacturer or for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all, either of which would delay or prevent our ability to develop and commercialize our products. If third-party manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue may be affected adversely in a number of ways, including: · we and our strategic partners may be unable to initiate or continue clinical studies of our products that are under development; · we and our strategic partners may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our products that are under development; and · we and our strategic partners may be unable to meet commercial demands for any approved products. In addition, if a third-party manufacturer fails to perform as agreed, our ability to collect damages may be contractually limited. We have very limited staffing and are dependent upon key employees and the limited use of independent contractors, the loss of some of which could affect adversely our operations. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a relatively small management team and staff. We also engage independent contractors from time to time on an as needed, project by project, basis. In January 2012, in order to reduce our operating expenses, we terminated several of our independent contractor arrangements and reduced our total employee headcount. If we decide to terminate our LibiGel clinical development program, including the LibiGel Phase safety study, we likely will terminate additional independent contractor arrangements and further reduce our total employee headcount. Such reductions in force, combined with our future business prospects and financial condition, put us at risk of losing key personnel who we will need going forward to implement our business strategies. We have no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including clinical, regulatory, strategic planning and finance. We have employment arrangements in place with our executive and other officers, but none of these executive and other officers is bound legally to remain employed with us for any specific term. We do not have key man life insurance policies covering our executive and other officers or any of our other 40 Table of Contents employees. If key individuals leave our company, our business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. There is competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry in the suburban Chicago, Illinois area in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. Our financial condition and recent reduction in force and expense reductions may make it difficult for us to retain current personnel and attract qualified employees and independent contractors in the future. If plaintiffs bring product liability lawsuits against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to delay development or limit commercialization of any of our products approved for commercial sale. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our products in development and the commercial sale of our products that have been or will be approved for commercial sale. We may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical studies, costs to defend litigation, substantial monetary awards to clinical study participants or patients, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize any products that we develop. We currently maintain limited product liability insurance. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a personal injury or other claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. Our insurance does not cover third parties’ negligence or malpractice, and our clinical investigators and sites may have inadequate insurance or none at all. In addition, in order to conduct our clinical studies or otherwise carry out our business, we may have to assume liabilities contractually for which we may not be insured. If we are unable to look to our own or a third party’s insurance to pay claims against us, we may have to pay any arising costs and damages ourselves, which may be substantial. Even if we ultimately are successful in product liability litigation, the litigation likely would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity, all of which likely would impair our ability to generate sales of the affected product and our other products. Moreover, product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the direction of the FDA, other governmental agencies or other companies having regulatory control for our product sales. Product recalls generally are expensive and often have an adverse effect on the reputation of the products being recalled and of the product’s developer or manufacturer. We may be required to indemnify third parties against damages and other liabilities arising out of our development, commercialization and other business activities, which could be costly and time-consuming and distract management. If third parties that have agreed to indemnify us against damages and other liabilities arising from their activities do not fulfill their obligations, then we may be held responsible for those damages and other liabilities. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to provide a report by our registered independent public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our registered independent public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal controls or they issue 41 Table of Contents an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could affect adversely our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, continue to issue new requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC and NASDAQ to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from our other business activities. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our principal executive office and our only business location is in Lincolnshire, Illinois, which is a suburb of Chicago. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could disrupt our operations or those of our strategic partners, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results, and could delay our efforts to identify and execute any strategic opportunities. Risks Related to Our Industry Because our industry is very competitive, we may not succeed in bringing certain of our products to market and any products we or our strategic partners introduce commercially may not be successful. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also are conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. We cannot assure you that our potential competitors, some of whom are our strategic partners, will not succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to us, or that these competing technologies and products will not be more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop. 42 Table of Contents Because the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial position, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal authorities, including principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and state governmental authorities. The U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (CSA) and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements can have a broad range of consequences, including warning letters, fines, seizure of products, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and distribution, refusal to approve NDAs or other applications or revocation of approvals previously granted, withdrawal of product from marketing, injunction, withdrawal of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct business, disqualification from supply contracts with the government, and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. In addition to compliance with “current good manufacturing practice” regulations, commonly referred to as “cGMP” regulations and requirements, drug manufacturers must register each manufacturing facility with the FDA. Manufacturers and distributors of prescription drug products are also required to be registered in the states where they are located and in certain states that require registration by out-of-state manufacturers and distributors. Manufacturers also must be registered with the DEA and similar applicable state and local regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances, and also must comply with other applicable DEA requirements. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected and the market value of our common stock could decline. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may affect us adversely. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies in these industries having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend also may result in fewer potential strategic partners or licensees for our products and technology. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or strategic partners as a result of such consolidation. This trend may affect adversely our ability to enter into strategic arrangements for the development and commercialization of our products, and as a result may harm our business. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We license rights to the technology underlying LibiGel and many of our other products and technologies from third parties. The loss of these rights, including in particular, our rights underlying LibiGel, could have an adverse effect on our business and future prospects and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We license rights to certain of the technology underlying certain of our gel products, including LibiGel, but not our male testosterone gel, from Antares Pharma, Inc., our GVAX cancer vaccines from Johns Hopkins University and The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and The Pill Plus from Wake Forest University Health Sciences. We may lose our rights to these technologies if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. Although we intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to meet these obligations, if we violate or fail to perform any term or covenant of the license agreements, the other party to these agreements under certain circumstances may terminate these agreements or certain projects contained in these agreements. The termination of these agreements, however, will not relieve us of our obligation to pay any royalty or license fees owed at the time of termination. We have licensed some of our products to third parties and any breach by these parties of their obligations under these license agreements or a termination of these license agreements by these parties could affect adversely the development and marketing of our licensed products. In addition, these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our products. We have licensed some of our products to third parties, including Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Pantarhei Bioscience B.V. and Valeant Pharmaceuticals. All of these parties, except for Jazz Pharmaceuticals, have agreed to be responsible for continued development, regulatory filings and all have agreed to manufacturing and marketing associated with the products. In addition, in the future we may enter into additional similar license agreements. Our products that we have licensed to others thus are subject to not only customary and inevitable uncertainties associated with the drug development process, regulatory approvals and market acceptance of products, but also depend on the respective licensees for timely development, obtaining required regulatory approvals, commercialization and otherwise continued commitment to the products. Our current and future licensees may have different and, sometimes, competing priorities. We cannot assure you that our strategic partners or any future third party to whom we may license our products will remain focused on the development and commercialization of our partnered products or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreements with them, especially since these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our products. Any breach of our agreements by our strategic partners or any other third party of their obligations under these agreements or a termination of these agreements by these parties could harm development of the partnered products in these agreements if we are unable to license the products to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the development and future commercialization of the products ourselves. As an example, our male testosterone gel was initially developed by us, and then licensed to Teva for late stage clinical development and commercialization. Teva submitted an NDA for our male testosterone gel that was approved by the FDA in February 2012. Subsequent to Teva’s NDA submission, in April 2011, a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories, a marketer of a testosterone gel for men, filed a complaint against Teva alleging patent infringement. The Teva/Abbott Laboratories patent infringement litigation was settled in December 2011; however, the terms of the settlement agreement are confidential and have not been publicly disclosed. To the extent Teva has agreed with the subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories to delay the commercial launch of our male testosterone gel, the settlement agreement could delay our receipt of royalties based on sales of our male testosterone gel by Teva. 44 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Our owned and licensed patents and patent applications, however, may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of other reasons: · We do not know whether our licensor’s patent applications will result in issued patents. · Competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Competitors also may have our patents reexamined by demonstrating to the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. · We are engaged in the process of developing products. Even if we receive a patent, it may not provide much practical protection. There is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Though patent term extension may be possible for particular products, any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our products. · Litigation also may be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. Intellectual property litigation is costly and may affect adversely our operating results. Such litigation also may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. · We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. We rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to 45 Table of Contents the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop and obtain patent protection substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Such agreements, however, may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. The patent protection for our products may expire before we are able to maximize their commercial value which may subject us to increased competition, inhibit our ability to find strategic partners and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue. The patents for our commercialized products and products in development have varying expiration dates and, when these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs. For example, the U.S. patents covering the formulations used in Elestrin and LibiGel which we license from Antares Pharma are scheduled to expire in June 2022 and the new U.S. patent covering the “method of use” of LibiGel for treating FSD and HSDD will expire in December 2028. Although we have filed additional U.S. patent applications covering LibiGel, we can provide no assurance that such applications will be granted and that the patents will issue. In addition to patents, we may receive three years of marketing exclusivity for LibiGel under the Hatch-Waxman Act and an additional six months of pediatric exclusivity, if we decide to pursue regulatory approval for LibiGel. Depending upon if and when we receive regulatory approval for LibiGel and our other products in development and the then expiration dates of the patents underlying LibiGel and such other products, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of such patents and consequently it may be difficult to find a strategic partner for such products. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could affect adversely our operating results and financial condition. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our technology would infringe on patents arising from these unpublished patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: · result in costly litigation; · divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; · cause product development delays; · require us to develop non-infringing technology; or 46 Table of Contents · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry often have been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our potential gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. With respect to products which we have licensed to others, our licensees may be responsible for the defense of any patent infringement claims, which would result in our dependence upon them to defend our intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock or convertible senior notes could decline in value. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and it is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. During 2011, the sale price of our common stock ranged from $0.38 per share to $4.02 per share. The securities of small capitalization, biopharmaceutical companies, including our company, from time to time experience significant price fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In addition, as our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the notes. Interest rate fluctuations also can affect the price of our convertible senior notes. In particular, the market price of our common stock and our convertible senior notes may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · general stock market and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, not directly related to our company or our business; · actual or anticipated governmental agency actions, including in particular decisions or actions by the FDA or FDA advisory committee panels with respect to our products in development or our competitors’ products; · actual or anticipated results of our clinical studies or those of our competitors; · changes in anticipated or actual timing of our development programs, including delays or cancellations of clinical studies for our products; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by licensors or licensees of our technology; · entering into new strategic partnering arrangements or termination of existing strategic partnering arrangements; · developments concerning our efforts to identify and implement strategic opportunities and the terms and timing of any resulting transactions; 47 Table of Contents · public concern as to the safety or efficacy of or market acceptance of products developed by us or our competitors; · our cash and cash equivalents and our need and ability to obtain additional financing; · equity sales by us to fund our operations or restructure our outstanding convertible senior notes; · changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; · the resolution of pending litigation; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenues; · loss of key management; · common stock sales and purchases in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; · reports issued by securities analysts regarding our common stock and articles published regarding our business and/or products; · changes in the market valuations of other life science or biotechnology companies; and · other financial announcements, including delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market, review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results, delays in our filings with the SEC or our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report or in subsequent reports we file with or submit to the SEC from time to time could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. We currently are subject to such litigation as described elsewhere in this report. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. Future exercises by holders of warrants and options and conversions by holders of our convertible senior notes and other issuances of additional securities could substantially dilute our common stock. As of March 1, 2012, we had warrants to purchase an aggregate of 22.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding that are exercisable at prices ranging from $2.00 per share to $39.27 per share and options to purchase an aggregate of 7.1 million shares of our common stock outstanding that are exercisable at prices ranging from $0.684 per share to $36.82 per share. In addition, as of March 12, 2012, we had an aggregate of $11.8 million in principal amount of convertible senior notes that are convertible into an aggregate of 3.2 million shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $3.72 per share. Our stockholders, therefore, could experience substantial dilution of their investment upon 48 Table of Contents exercise of these warrants and options and conversion of these notes. A substantial majority of these shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and options and conversion of the notes currently are either registered or otherwise available for immediate resale, and thus once issued, will be available for immediate resale in the public market. In addition, we have the ability to offer and sell common stock, preferred stock and warrants under currently effective universal shelf registration statements. Any issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your share ownership. In addition, these sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell such shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred shares that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and · advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals and director nominations that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 