Risk Factors,” of this report. Environmental. A portion of our business involves the planning, design, program management, and construction management and operation and maintenance of pollution control facilities, as well as the assessment, design and management of remediation activities at hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. governmental entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. Some environmental laws including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, (“RCRA”), and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, (“CERCLA”), as well as other governmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of the clean-up of contaminated facilities or sites upon present and former owners and operators as well as generators, transporters and persons arranging for the treatment or disposal of such substances. While we strive to handle hazardous and toxic substances with care and in accordance with safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills and the events of force majeure always exist. Humans exposed to these materials, including workers or subcontractors engaged in the transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and persons in affected areas may be injured or become ill, resulting in lawsuits that expose us to liability and may result in substantial damage awards against us. Liabilities for contamination or human exposure to hazardous or toxic materials or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or cessation of remediation activities. Some of our business operations are covered by Public Law 85-804, which provides for government indemnification against claims and damages arising out of unusually hazardous or nuclear activities performed at the request of the government. Should public policies and laws be changed, however, government indemnification may not be available in the case of any future claims or liabilities relating to hazardous activities that we undertake to perform. 12 Table of Contents Government Procurement. The services we provide to the U.S. federal government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), the Truth in Negotiations Act (“TINA”), the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), the Service Contract Act (“SCA”), DOD security regulations and other rules and regulations applicable to government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our government clients and in some instances, impose added costs to our business operations. A violation of specific laws and regulations could lead to fines, contract termination or suspension of future contracts. Our government clients can also terminate or modify any of their contracts with us at their convenience, and many of our government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. Other regulations and requirements. We provide services to the U.S. DOD and other defense-related entities that often require specialized professional qualifications and security clearances. Our international business is also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as various export control, anti-boycott, and embargo laws. In addition, as engineering design services professionals, we are subject to a variety of local, state and foreign licensing and permit requirements. Sales and Marketing Our URS Division performs business development and sales activities primarily through our network of local offices around the world. For large, market-specific projects requiring diverse technical capabilities, we utilize the companywide resources of specific disciplines. This often involves coordinating marketing efforts on a regional, national or global level. Our EG&G Division performs business development and sales activities primarily through its management groups, which address specific markets, such as homeland security and defense systems. In addition, our EG&G Division coordinates national marketing efforts on large projects and for multi-division or multi-market scope efforts. Over the past year, the URS Division and the EG&G Division have jointly pursued several federal defense and homeland security projects, and have been successful in marketing EG&G’s technical capabilities to URS’ established state and local government clients. Seasonality We experience seasonal trends in our business in connection with federal holidays, such as Memorial Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Day. Our revenues are typically lower during these times of the year because many of our clients’ employees as well as our own employees do not work during these holidays, resulting in fewer billable hours worked on projects and thus lesser revenues recognized. In addition to holidays, our business also is affected by seasonal bad weather conditions that occasionally cause some of our offices to close temporarily. Raw Materials As a professional services company, our business is not heavily dependent on raw materials. Risks associated with the procurement of raw materials for our construction services projects are generally passed through to our clients. We do not foresee the lack of availability of raw materials as a factor that could have a material adverse effect on our business in the near term. Insurance Our insurance policy includes primary and excess limits totaling $125.0 million per loss and $125.0 million in the aggregate for general liability, professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability policy includes a self-insured claim retention of $4.0 million (or $10.0 million in some circumstances). The professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance policies each include a self-insured claim retention amount of $10.0 million each. Parties may seek damages that substantially exceed our insurance coverage. 13 Table of Contents Excess insurance policies above our primary policy limits provide for coverages on a “claims made” basis, covering only claims actually made and reported during the policy period currently in effect. Thus, if we do not continue to maintain these policies, we will have no coverage for claims made after the termination date, even for claims based on events that occurred during the term of coverage. While we intend to maintain these policies, we may be unable to maintain existing coverage levels. We have maintained insurance without lapse for many years with limits in excess of losses sustained. Employees As of January 31, 2007, we had approximately 26,000 full-time employees and 3,300 temporary or part-time workers. The URS Division and the EG&G Division employed approximately 17,000 and 12,300 persons (including temporary and part-time workers), respectively. At various times, we have employed up to several thousand workers on a temporary or part-time basis to meet our contractual obligations. Approximately 2,300 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements are subject to amendment on various dates ranging from March 2007 to July 2010. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our web site at www.urscorp.com. These reports, and any amendments to these reports, are made available on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference room. The SEC also maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy, and other information that we filed with the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters for our Audit, Board Affairs and Compensation Committees, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our web site at www.urscorp.com under the “Corporate Governance” section. Any waivers or amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on our web site. A printed copy of this information is also available without charge by sending a written request to: Corporate Secretary, URS Corporation, 600 Montgomery Street, 26th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94111-2728. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors could affect our financial condition and results of operations and should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 28 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 56 . Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, net income and financial condition may deteriorate. Demand for our services in our infrastructure and defense markets is cyclical and vulnerable to sudden economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. For example, there was a decrease in our URS Division revenues of $77.9 million, or 3.4%, in fiscal year 2002 compared to fiscal year 2001 as a result of the general economic decline. Our clients may demand better pricing terms and their ability to pay our invoices may be affected by a weakening economy. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, net income and overall financial condition may deteriorate. 14 Table of Contents We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our book of business, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. We account for all contract awards that may eventually be recognized as revenues as our “book of business,” which includes backlog, designations, option years and IDCs. Our backlog consists of the amount billable at a particular point in time, including task orders issued under IDCs. As of December 29, 2006, our backlog was approximately $4.6 billion. Our designations consist of projects that clients have awarded us, but for which we do not yet have signed contracts. Our option year contracts are multi-year contracts with base periods, plus option years that are exercisable by our clients without the need for us to go through another competitive bidding process. Our IDCs are signed contracts under which we perform work only when our clients issue specific task orders. Our book of business estimates may not result in actual revenues in any particular period because clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or issue task orders. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our book of business, our operations could be harmed and our future revenues could be significantly reduced. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws, regulations and government audits; a violation of any such laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. We must comply with and are affected by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with the FAR, the TINA, the CAS, the SCA and the DOD security regulations, as well as many other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our clients and in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor’s performance under its contracts and cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. In addition, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs, and if the DCAA believes we have accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. Historically, we have not experienced significant disallowed costs as a result of government audits. However, we can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowances for incurred costs in the future. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Because we depend on federal, state and local governments for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Revenues from federal government contracts and state and local government contracts represented approximately 45% and 22%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 29, 2006. Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as IDCs, that generally require those contractors who have previously been awarded the IDC to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. 15 Table of Contents Each year some government contracts may be dependent on the legislative appropriations process. If legislative appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year government contract, then we may not realize all of our potential revenues and profits from that contract. Each year the funding for some of our government contracts may be dependent on the legislative appropriations process. For example, the passage of the SAFETEA-LU highway and transit bill in August of 2005 has provided additional funding for state transportation projects in which we provide services. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may only be partially funded, and additional funding is committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, rise in raw material costs, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we may not realize all of our potential revenues and profits from that contract. Our government contracts may give the government the right to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace these contracts, then we may suffer a decline in revenues. Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right for the government to modify, delay, curtail or terminate contracts and subcontracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in revenues. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. It is important for us to control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus, fixed-price and time-and-materials. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all of the costs we incur. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: · the application of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders, and contract claims; · provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; 16 Table of Contents · value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; · valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; · valuation of defined benefit pension plans and other employee benefit plans; · valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in a reduction or a reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, which is discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” to our “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included under Item 8 of this report. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts in process, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Because we have grown through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other net purchased intangible assets were $993.0 million as of December 29, 2006. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we would be required to write off the impaired amount, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our failure to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to liability, loss of reputation or reduced or eliminated profits. We sometimes enter into subcontracts, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends upon, among other things, the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional expenditures and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to liability, loss of reputation or reduced or eliminated profits. We may be subject to substantial liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. A portion of our environmental business involves the planning, design, program management, construction management and operation and maintenance of pollution control facilities, hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. governmental entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. We must comply with a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under the CERCLA and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of clean up can be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the RCRA, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability; however, we are currently not subject to any material claims under environmental laws and regulations. 18 Table of Contents Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may adversely affect us and result in a significant loss. In performing our services, we may be exposed to legal proceedings in connection with cost overruns, personal injury claims, property damage, labor shortages or disputes, weather problems and unforeseen engineering, architectural, environmental and geological problems. In some actions, parties may seek damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Currently, we have limits of $125.0 million per loss and $125.0 million in the aggregate for general liability, professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). The general liability policy includes a self-insured claim retention of $4.0 million (or $10.0 million in some circumstances). The professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance policies include a self-insured claim retention amount of $10.0 million each. Our services may require us to make judgments and recommendations about environmental, structural, geotechnical and other physical conditions at project sites. If our performance, judgments and recommendations are later found to be incomplete or incorrect, then we may be liable for the resulting damages. Various legal proceedings are pending against us in connection with the performance of our professional services and other actions by us. Although the outcome of our legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and no assurance can be provided as to a favorable outcome, based on our previous experience in these matters, we do not believe that any of our legal proceedings, individually or collectively, are likely to exceed established loss accruals or our various professional errors and omissions, project-specific and other insurance policies. However, the resolution of outstanding claims is subject to inherent uncertainty and it is reasonably possible that any resolution could have an adverse effect on us. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Changes in environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Our environmental services business is driven by federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. For example, passage of the Clean Air Interstate and Clean Air Mercury environmental rules has increased our emissions control business. On the other hand, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. A decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Revenues under contracts with the DOD and other defense-related clients represented approximately 36% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2006. While spending authorization for defense-related programs has increased significantly in recent years due to greater homeland security and foreign military commitments, as well as the trend to outsource federal government jobs to the private sector, these spending levels may not be sustainable. For example, the DOD budget declined in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in DOD program delays and cancellations. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Our overall market share will decline if we are unable to compete successfully in our industry. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. According to the publication Engineering News-Record, based on information voluntarily reported by 500 design firms, the top ten engineering design firms only accounted for approximately 32% of the total design firm revenues in 2005. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. 19 Table of Contents Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share will decline. These competitive forces could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing our relative share in the markets we serve. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As a professional and technical services company, we are labor intensive and therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. The failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. Employee, agent, or partner misconduct or our failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts with government clients, which could result in decreasing revenues. As a federal, state and local government contractor, misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents, or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, laws regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. Other examples of potential misconduct include time card fraud and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win future contract with government clients. Recent changes in accounting for equity-related compensation have impacted our financial statements and could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) on December 31, 2005. At that time, we evaluated our current stock-based compensation plans and employee stock purchase plans. In order to minimize the volatility of our stock-based compensation expense, we are currently issuing restricted stock awards and units to selected employees rather than granting stock options. We also revised our employee stock purchase plan from a 15% discount on our stock price at the beginning or the end of the six-month offering period, whichever is lower, to a 5% discount on our stock price at the end of the six-month offering period. These changes to our equity-related compensation may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to finance future operations or engage in other business activities. As of December 29, 2006, we had $168.6 million of total outstanding indebtedness and $61.3 million in letters of credit outstanding against our revolving line of credit. This level of indebtedness could negatively affect us because it may impair our ability to borrow in the future and make us more vulnerable in an economic downturn. Our current credit facility contains customary financial, affirmative and negative covenants for a company with a similar financial position to ours. As of December 29, 2006, we were in compliance with all the convenants of our credit facility. 20 Table of Contents Because we are a holding company, we may not be able to service our debt if our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than investments in the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our business operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for payments and dividends to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal restrictions, including local regulations and contractual obligations associated with secured loans, such as equipment financings, could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt at maturity. As of December 29, 2006, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases), during the next twelve months will be approximately $17.0 million. Based on the current outstanding indebtedness of $114.0 million under our current credit facility, if market rates were to average 1% higher during that same twelve-month period, our net of tax interest expense would increase by approximately $0.7 million. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. As a multinational company, we have operations in over 20 countries and we derived 10% of our revenues from international operations for both fiscal years ended December 29, 2006 and December 30, 2005. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: · lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; · greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; · currency fluctuations; · logistical and communication challenges; · potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; · changes in labor conditions; · exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control and anti-boycott laws; and · general economic and political conditions in foreign markets. These and other risks associated with international operations could harm our overall operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. In addition, services billed through foreign subsidiaries are attributed to the international category of our business, regardless of where the services are performed and conversely, services billed through domestic operating subsidiaries are attributed to a domestic category of clients, regardless of where the services are performed. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenues attributed to our international operations. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we have employees working in high security risk countries located in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. 21 Table of Contents We rely on third party software to run our critical accounting, project management, and financial information systems, and as a result, any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain such systems could significantly increase our operational expense as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We rely on third party software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. For example, we relied on one software vendor’s products to process approximately 63% of our total revenues as of December 29, 2006. We also depend on our third party software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense as well as disrupting the management of our business operations. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina that affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005 and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. For example, Hurricane Katrina caused several of our Gulf Coast offices to close, interrupted a number of active client projects and forced the relocation of our employees in that region from their homes. In addition, during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, several of our offices were shut down due to terrorist attack warnings. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of December 29, 2006, approximately 8% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefits expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address the threat of union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature of the threat or the type and duration of any work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 