Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant risk factors known to us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Future Capital Requirements We have a history of operating losses, expect continuing losses and may never become profitable. We incurred a net loss of $47.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and as of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $119.4 million. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been derived from upfront and milestone payments earned on licensing transactions, revenue earned from subcontracts and royalty revenue. We expect to continue to incur substantial and continuing losses as our own product development programs continue and various preclinical and clinical trials commence or continue, including in particular our Phase III clinical study program for LibiGel. In order to generate new and significant revenues, we must develop successfully our own products or enter into collaborative agreements with others who can commercialize them successfully. Even if our products are introduced commercially, they may never achieve market acceptance and we may not generate additional revenues or ever achieve profitability. We may need to continue to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and we may be unable to raise such funds when needed and on acceptable terms. We currently do not have sufficient resources to obtain regulatory approval of LibiGel or any of our other products or to complete the commercialization of any of our products. We expect the Phase III clinical study program of LibiGel to continue to require significant resources. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: • the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular our Phase III clinical study program for LibiGel, and our other product development efforts; • subject recruitment and enrollment in our current and future clinical studies, including in particular our Phase III clinical study program for LibiGel; • our ability to license LibiGel or our other products for development and commercialization; • the success, progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, licenses and other business combinations or transactions, including our efforts, to continue to evaluate various strategic alternatives available with respect to our GVAX cancer immunotherapics and other technologies that we acquired as a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, our products and our company; • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews of our products; • the rate of technological advances; • the commercial success of our products; • our general and administrative expenses; 22 Table of Contents • the timing and cost of obtaining third party reimbursement for our products; and • the activities of our competitors. Therefore, we may need to continue to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations. Although we believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $29.9 million at December 31, 2009 and the additional $17.5 million in net proceeds we received from our March 2010 registered direct offering will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, this estimate may prove incorrect or we may decide to raise additional financing earlier. We have on file an effective shelf registration statement that allows us to raise up to $75.0 million from the sale of common stock, preferred stock, warrants or units comprised of the foregoing. However, as of March 15, 2010, we had used approximately $46.8 million of this amount and under applicable SEC rules, if we have a public float of less than $75.0 million, we can only offer to sell under the registration statement up to one-third of our public float during any 12 month period. We can provide no assurance that additional financing, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms when we need them, we may need to delay our Phase III clinical study program for LibiGel or otherwise make changes to our operations to cut costs. As an alternative to raising additional financing, we may choose to license LibiGel, Elestrin (outside the territories already licensed) or another product, e.g., our GVAX immunotherapies, to a third party who may finance a portion or all of the continued development and, if approved, commercialization of that licensed product, sell certain assets or rights we have under our existing license agreements or enter into other business collaborations or combinations, including the possible sale of our company. Raising additional funds by issuing equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders, raising additional funds by issuing additional debt financing may restrict our operations and raising additional funds by through licensing arrangements may require us to relinquish proprietary rights. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be diluted significantly, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt financing, the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness may limit funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on the ability of us to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. As an alternative to raising additional financing by issuing equity or debt securities, we may choose to license LibiGel, Elestrin (outside the territories already licensed) or another product to a third party, e.g., our GVAX immunotherapies, who may finance a portion or all of the continued development and, if approved, commercialization of that licensed product, sell certain assets or rights we have under our existing license agreements or enter into other business collaborations or combinations, including the possible sale of our company. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish greater or all rights to our products at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we otherwise would choose. 23 Table of Contents Our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge Capital Limited may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down. We have a committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge that expires in December 2010. The committed equity financing facility entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time through the expiration date, up to the lesser of (i) an aggregate of $25 million in or (ii) 5,405,840 shares of our common stock for cash consideration, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the facility unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock of $1.15 per share; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; continued effectiveness of the registration statement registering the resale of shares of our common stock issued or issuable to Kingsbridge; and the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the facility if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of 10 trading days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. If we are unable to access funds through the committed equity financing facility, or if the facility is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. As of the date of this report, we had not sold any shares to Kingsbridge under the committed equity financing facility and we did not have an effective registration statement registering the resale of shares of our common stock issued or issuable to Kingsbridge under the facility. As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we have substantial indebtedness, which we may not be able to pay when it becomes due and payable. As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we assumed $22.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding convertible notes, $1.2 million of which will be due in November 2011 and $20.8 million of which will be due in May 2013. The annual interest payment on these notes is approximately $0.7 million. We do not have any significant source of revenues and thus although we intend to continue to seek additional financing to support our operations, it is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay the principal on our convertible notes when it becomes due, especially if an event of default were to occur under the indentures governing the convertible notes. The indentures governing our convertible notes contain covenants, which if not complied with, could result in an event of default and the acceleration of all amounts due under the notes. The indentures governing our assumed convertible notes contain covenants, such as the requirement to pay accrued interest on May 1 and November 1 of each year, the requirement to repurchase the notes upon a “fundamental change,” as defined in the indenture, if a note holder so elects and the requirement to file periodic reports electronically with the SEC. If we do not comply with the covenants in the indentures, an event of default could occur and all amounts due under the notes could become immediately due and payable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indentures, the trustee has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all such indebtedness, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable. Although it is possible we could negotiate a waiver with the trustee and the holders of the notes, such a waiver likely would involve significant costs. It also is possible that we could refinance our obligations under the notes; however, such a refinancing also would involve significant costs and likely result in increased interest rates. 24 Table of Contents As a result of our merger with Cell Genesys, we possess not only all of the assets but also all of the liabilities of Cell Genesys. Discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions often involve known and unknown risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems. In October 2008, in view of the termination of both its VITAL-1 and VITAL-2 Phase III clinical trials, Cell Genesys discontinued further development of GVAX immunotherapy for prostate cancer. Cell Genesys subsequently implemented a substantial restructuring plan to wind down its business operations and seek strategic alternatives. Under the restructuring plan, Cell Genesys terminated approximately 280 employees, closed two facilities and terminated two leases. As a result our merger with Cell Genesys, we possess not only all of the assets, but also all of the potential liabilities of Cell Genesys. Although we conducted a due diligence investigation of Cell Genesys and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, it is possible that undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems may arise, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Most of our products are in the development stages and likely will not be introduced commercially for several years, if at all. Our products are in the development stages and will require further development, preclinical and clinical testing and investment prior to commercialization in the United States and abroad. Other than Elestrin, none of our products has been introduced commercially nor do we expect them to be for several years. Some of our products are not in active development. For example, at this time and as previously disclosed, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal gel product licensed to Solvay is not in active development by Solvay (now owned by Abbott Laboratories), and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. We cannot assure you that any of our products will: • be developed successfully; • prove to be safe and effective in clinical studies; • meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; • demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or • be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to manufacture commercially or sell any of our future products, or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of our products. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell any of our products in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we must obtain the approval of the FDA for each product or drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process typically is lengthy and expensive, and approval never is certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. 25 Table of Contents Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development eventually are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, the credibility of our management, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity would be affected adversely. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. In addition, even after obtaining regulatory approval, we may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product if previously unknown problems with the product or our manufacture subsequently are discovered. The FDA also may require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. To obtain regulatory approval to market many of our products, costly and lengthy pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials are required, and the results of the studies and trials are highly uncertain. As part of the FDA approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense or the expense of current or potential licensees, clinical trials in human subjects on each of our products. Pre-clinical studies on animals must be conducted on some of our products. We expect the number of pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials that the FDA will require will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular product. We may need to perform multiple pre-clinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin human clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our products. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in pre-clinical studies on animals, the results in humans may be different. After we have conducted pre-clinical studies in animals, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for use on the target human patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. The data obtained from pre-clinical and human clinical testing are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We face the risk that the results of our clinical trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal or human testing. Adverse or inconclusive human clinical results would prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our products. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: • slow subject enrollment; • timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; • longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or safety; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated subjects; • lack of effectiveness of the product being tested; and • lack of funding. Delays in our clinical trials could allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products and thus can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. 26 Table of Contents Although we successfully have completed and reached agreement with the FDA under the Special Protocol Assessment process for our Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trial program for LibiGel, we still may not obtain FDA approval of LibiGel within a reasonable period of time or ever, which would harm our business and likely decrease our stock price. LibiGel has not been approved for marketing by the FDA and is still subject to risks associated with its clinical development and obtaining regulatory approval. We believe based on agreements with the FDA, including a Special Protocol Assessment received in January 2008, that two Phase III safety and efficacy trials and one year of LibiGel exposure in a Phase III cardiovascular and breast cancer safety study with a four-year follow-up post-NDA filing and potentially post-FDA approval are the essential requirements for submission and, if successful, approval by the FDA of an NDA for LibiGel for the treatment of FSD, specifically, HSDD in menopausal women. The SPA process and agreement affirms that the FDA agrees that the LibiGel Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trial design, clinical endpoints, sample size, planned conduct and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval. Further, it provides assurance that these agreed measures will serve as the basis for regulatory review and the decision by the FDA to approve an NDA for LibiGel. These SPA trials use our validated instruments to measure the clinical endpoints. The January 2008 SPA agreement covers the pivotal Phase III safety and efficacy trials of LibiGel in the treatment of FSD for “surgically” menopausal women. In July 2008, we received another SPA for our LibiGel program in the treatment of FSD, specifically, HSDD in “naturally” menopausal women. We have an additional SPA agreement which covers the LibiGel stability, or shelf life studies for the intended commercialization of LibiGel product. The SPA agreements, however, are not guarantees of LibiGel approval by the FDA or approval of any permissible claims about LibiGel. In particular, SPA agreements are not binding on the FDA if previously unrecognized public health concerns later comes to light, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or effectiveness arise, we fail to comply with the protocol agreed upon, or the FDA’s reliance on data, assumptions or information are determined to be wrong. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed by us or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement. In addition, the data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent FDA regulatory approval. Delays in the completion of these clinical trials, which can result from unforeseen issues, FDA interventions, problems with enrolling subjects and other reasons, could delay significantly commercial launch and affect our product development costs. Moreover, results from these clinical studies may not be as favorable as the results we obtained in prior, completed studies. We cannot ensure that, even after extensive clinical trials, regulatory approval will ever be obtained for LibiGel. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could adversely affect the market for our hormone therapy products and the trading price of our common stock. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products may exceed the benefits from the use of those products among postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the NIH released data from its WHI study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin for an average of 5.2 year follow-up among postmenopausal women. Also, in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom also was halted. Our products differ from the products used in the WHI study and the primary products observed in the National Cancer Institute and United Kingdom studies. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment. 27 Table of Contents Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Recent reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. There currently are no studies published comparing the safety of our products against other hormone therapies. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms declined as a result of these published studies, although the market now seems to have stabilized. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse affects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to our products, also could affect adversely our business and likely decrease our stock price. If clinical trials for our products are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our products on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales or licenses. We may encounter problems with our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials for our products that may cause us or a regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of, or terminate, our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our products and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval or enter into collaborations for, or market or sell, a particular product: • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delay in developing, or our inability to obtain, a clinical dosage form, insufficient supply or deficient quality of our products or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical study or termination of a clinical program; • serious and/or unexpected product-related side effects experienced by subjects in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Regulatory authorities, clinical investigators, institutional review boards, data safety monitoring boards and the sites at which our clinical trials are conducted all have the power to stop our clinical trials prior to completion. Our clinical trials for our products may not begin as planned, may need to be restructured, and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. This is particularly true if we no longer have the financial resources to dedicate to our clinical trial program. 28 Table of Contents We entered into an exclusive license agreement with Azur Pharma International II, Limited for the marketing of Elestrin in the United States. Our ability to obtain sales-based milestones of up to $140 million from Azur is dependent upon Azur’s ability to market and sell Elestrin. Elestrin is our first FDA approved product. Azur Pharma International II Limited is marketing Elestrin in the U.S. using its women’s health sales force that targets estrogen prescribing physicians in the U.S. comprised mostly of gynecologists. Azur launched sales and marketing activities related to Elestrin in April 2009. We recognized royalty and other revenue from sales of Elestrin of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In December 2009, we entered into an amendment to our original licensing agreement with Azur which permanently reduced the royalty percentage due to us related to Azur’s sales of Elestrin. Upon signing the amended agreement, Azur made a $1.0 million nonrefundable payment in December 2009 in exchange for a permanent reduction in future royalty rates, and received options to make a total of $2.16 million in additional non-refundable payments (which were exercised during the first quarter of 2010) in exchange for the elimination of substantially all remaining future royalties and milestone payments due us under the terms of the original license. The $1.0 million nonrefundable payment was recorded as revenue during the fourth quarter of 2009 as we had no remaining performance obligations with respect to this amount. We maintain the right to receive up to $140 million in sales-based milestone payments from Azur if Elestrin reaches certain predefined sales per calendar year. We cannot assure you that Azur will be successful in marketing Elestrin or that Azur will remain focused on the commercialization of Elestrin, especially if Azur does not experience significant Elestrin sales. Based on sales of Elestrin to date, we believe it is unlikely that we will receive any sales-based milestone payments from Azur. Our other products, if they receive FDA approval and are introduced commercially may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could harm our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The commercial success of our products, if they receive the required FDA or other regulatory approvals, is dependent upon market acceptance by physicians and patients. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be affected by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from competitors; • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors; • the timing of market entry; and • the ability to market our products effectively. Some of these factors are not within our control, especially if we have transferred all of the marketing rights associated with the product, as we have with the U.S. marketing rights to Elestrin to Azur and the U.S. marketing rights to The Pill Plus to Pantarhei Science. Our products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could harm our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. 29 Table of Contents We and our licensees depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our products and if these third parties do not manufacture successfully these products our business would be harmed. We have no manufacturing experience or manufacturing capabilities for the production of our products for clinical trials or commercial sale. In order to continue to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products following approval, we or our licensees must be able to manufacture or contract with third parties to manufacture our products in clinical and commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our products may be complex, difficult to accomplish and difficult to scale-up when large-scale production is required. Manufacture may be subject to delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If supplies of any of our products become unavailable on a timely basis or at all or are contaminated or otherwise lost, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed. To the extent that we or our licensees seek to enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we and such licensees will depend upon these third parties to perform our obligations in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. Contract manufacturers may breach their manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If third-party manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including: • we and our collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of product candidates that are under development; • we and our collaborators may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our product candidates; and • we and our collaborators may not be able to meet commercial demands for any approved products. We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a relatively small management team and staff. We have employment arrangements in place with both of our two executive officers, but neither of our executive officers is bound legally to remain employed for any specific term. We do not have key man life insurance policies covering our executive officers or any of our other employees. If key individuals leave our company, our business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Because our industry is very competitive, we may not succeed in bringing certain of our products to market and any products we introduce commercially may not be successful. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also are conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. We cannot assure you that our potential competitors, some of whom are our development collaborators, will not succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to us, or that these competing technologies and products will not be more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop. Because the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental authorities. For example, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the development of our products and our clinical trials, and if any of our products are approved, the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected and the market value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We license rights to the technology underlying LibiGel and many of our other products and technologies from third parties. The loss of these rights, including in particular, our rights underlying LibiGel, could have an adverse effect on our business and future prospects and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We license rights to certain of the technology underlying our gel products, including LibiGel, from Antares Pharma, Inc., our GVAX cancer immunotherapies from Johns Hopkins University and The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, a portion of our CaP technology from the University of California and The Pill Plus from Wake Forest University. We may lose our rights to these technologies if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. Although we intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to meet these obligations, if we violate or fail to perform any term or covenant of the license agreements, the other party to these agreements under certain circumstances may terminate these agreements or certain projects contained in these agreements. The termination of these agreements, however, will not relieve us of our obligation to pay any royalty or license fees owed at the time of termination. For example, if we were to enter into an license agreement with a third party under which we agree to license rights to our gel technology, GVAX cancer immunotherapies or CaP technology for a license fee, the termination of the main license agreement with Antares Pharma, Inc., Johns Hopkins University and The Whitehead Institute for BioMedical Research, the University of California or Wake Forest University could either, depending upon the terms of the license agreement, cause us to breach our obligations under the license agreement or give the other party a right to terminate that agreement, thereby causing us to lose future revenue generated by the license fees. Our failure to retain the right to these technologies could harm our business and future prospects. This is true in particular with respect to LibiGel, which we believe if approved by the FDA could be a very successful product. 31 Table of Contents We have licensed some of our products to third parties and any breach by these parties of their obligations under these license agreements or a termination of these license agreements by these parties could adversely affect the development and marketing of our licensed products. In addition, these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our products. We have licensed our CaP technology for use as a facial line filler to MATC and some of our gel products to third parties, including Azur, Solvay Pharmaceuticals, B.V. (now owned by Abbott Laboratories), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Pantarhei Bioscience B.V. and PharmaSwiss SA. All of these parties, except for Azur, have agreed to be responsible for continued development, regulatory filings and all have agreed to manufacturing and marketing associated with the products. In addition, in the future we may enter into additional similar license agreements. Our products that we have licensed to others thus are subject to not only customary and inevitable uncertainties associated with the drug development process, regulatory approvals and market acceptance of products, but also depend on the respective licensees for timely development, obtaining required regulatory approvals, commercialization and otherwise continued commitment to the products. Our current and future licensees may have different and, sometimes, competing priorities. We cannot assure you that our partners or any future third party to whom we may license our products will remain focused on the development and commercialization of our partnered products or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreements with them, especially since these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our products. For example, at this time and as previously disclosed, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal gel product licensed to Abbott Laboratories is not in active development by Abbott, and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. As an additional example, in 2005, we were notified that Teva USA had discontinued development of our male testosterone gel, Bio-T-Gel, product. Although in June 2007, we signed an amendment to the agreement under which we and Teva reinitiated our collaboration on the development of Bio-T-Gel for the U.S. market, no assurance can be provided that Teva will continue such development. Any future breach of this agreement by Teva or any other breach by our partners or any other third party of their obligations under these agreements or a termination of these agreements by these parties could harm development of the products in these agreements if we are unable to license the products to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the development and future commercialization of the products ourselves. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Our owned and licensed patents and patent applications, however, may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of other reasons: • We do not know whether our licensor’s patent applications will result in issued patents. • Competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Competitors also may have our patents reexamined by demonstrating to the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. 32 Table of Contents • We are engaged in the process of developing products. Even if we receive a patent, it may not provide much practical protection. There is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Though patent term extension may be possible for particular products, any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our products. • Litigation also may be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. Intellectual property litigation is costly and may adversely affect our operating results. Such litigation also may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. • We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. We rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop and obtain patent protection substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Such agreements, however, may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether our technology would infringe on patents arising from these unpublished patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: • result in costly litigation; 33 Table of Contents • divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; • cause product development delays; • require us to develop non-infringing technology; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry often have been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our potential gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been volatile. As a result, we could become subject to class action litigation, which even if without merit, could be costly to defend and could divert the time and attention of our management, which could harm our business and financial condition. Since January 1, 2009, the sale price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.03 to a high of $2.70. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization, biopharmaceutical companies, including our company, from time to time experience significant price fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • general stock, market and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, not directly related to our company or our business. • our ability to obtain needed financing; • governmental agency actions, including in particular decisions or actions by the FDA or FDA advisory committee panels with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; • the results of our clinical trials or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by licensors or licensees of our technology; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of or market acceptance of products developed by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenues; 34 Table of Contents • loss of key management; • common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; and • other potentially negative financial announcements, including delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results, delays in our filings with the SEC or our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report or otherwise in reports we file with or submit to the SEC from time to time could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. We may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock may be delisted which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards, including a $1.00 minimum closing bid price per share requirement, a $50 million market capitalization and a $15 million public float requirement or a $12 million minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, and certain corporate governance standards. If our common stock were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, we could apply to list our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market or our common stock could be traded in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred shares that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. 35 Table of Contents We may issue additional equity securities which would dilute your share ownership. We may issue additional equity securities to raise capital and through the exercise of options and warrants that are outstanding or may be outstanding. These additional issuances would dilute your share ownership. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS This Item 1B is not applicable to BioSante as a smaller reporting company. 