D. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information and the consolidated financial statements of SCOR and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report before making an investment decision with respect to the Ordinary Shares or ADSs. The insurance and reinsurance sectors are cyclical, which may impact our results. The insurance and reinsurance sectors, particularly in the Non Life area are cyclical. Historically, reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to volatile and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are beyond the direct control of the reinsurer, including, notably, competition, frequency or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity and general economic conditions. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general 7 Table of Contents economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses, levels of sector surplus and utilization of underwriting capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industries. As the performance of financial markets and reinsurers improves and reinsurance capacity increases, however, ceding companies are more inclined to ask for price reductions in the most profitable lines of business and underwriting quality tends to decline. At the same time, claims may be higher when economic conditions are unfavorable, particularly for products that provide reinsurance coverage for a risk that is related to the financial condition of the company that is being insured. As a result, the reinsurance business has been cyclical historically, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to significant underwriting capacity and periods when shortages of underwriting capacity permit favorable premium levels. We may therefore experience the effects of such cyclicality and there can be no assurances that changes in premium rates, the frequency and severity of catastrophes or other loss events or other factors affecting the insurance or reinsurance industries will not have a material effect on our revenues, net income, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. We are exposed to losses from catastrophic events. Like all reinsurers, our operating results and financial condition have in the past been, and can be expected in the future to be, adversely affected by natural and man-made catastrophes, which may give rise to claims under the Property-Casualty and Life reinsurance coverage we provide. Catastrophes can be caused by a variety of events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather conditions, fires and explosions. In 2004 and 2005, SCOR, like most other reinsurers, although to a lesser degree because of its underwriting policy, was affected by the unusually high frequency of natural catastrophes, particularly the major hurricanes in the United States, Mexico and the Caribbean in 2004 and 2005 and numerous typhoons in Japan in 2004. The Group’s most significant exposure to natural catastrophes mainly relates to earthquake risks, particularly in Japan, Taiwan, Canada, Portugal, Israel, Chile, Italy and Turkey, and storms and other weather-related phenomena in Europe, Asia and, to a lesser extent, in the United States. The frequency and severity of such events, particularly natural catastrophes, are by their nature unpredictable. The inherent unpredictability of these events makes forecasts and risk evaluations uncertain for any given year. As a result, our claims experience may vary significantly from one year to another, which can have a large impact on our profitability and financial situation. In addition, depending on the frequency and nature of the losses, the speed with which claims are made and the terms of the policies affected, we may be required to make large claims payments. We may be forced to fund these obligations by liquidating investments in unfavorable market conditions, or raising funds at unfavorable costs. These factors could have a significant impact on our financial condition. We have managed our exposure to catastrophic losses through selective underwriting practices, particularly by limiting our exposure to certain events which are now frequent in the Gulf of Mexico, by monitoring risk accumulations on a geographic basis, and by retroceding a portion of those risks to other reinsurers (retrocessionaires) selectively chosen based on their solid financial solvency margin. There can be no assurance, however, that these underwriting practices, including the management of risks on a geographical basis, or retrocessions, will be sufficient to protect us against material catastrophic losses, or that retrocession will continue to be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Although we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, it is possible that multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, results of operations and financial position. To obtain a better understanding of our possible exposure, we strengthened the modeling of our exposure to natural catastrophes by adopting the Eqecat model in 2005. We may be subject to losses due to our exposure to risks related to terrorist acts. In the context of our business, we may be exposed to claims arising from the consequences of terrorist acts. These risks, the potential significance of which can be illustrated by the September 11, 2001 attack in the United States, can affect both individuals and property. The September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center (WTC) initially resulted in the Group establishing reserves as a reinsurer on the basis that such attack was one single 8 Table of Contents occurrence and not two occurrences under the terms of the applicable insurance coverage issued to the lessors of the WTC and others. On December 6, 2004, a jury determined that the attack on the WTC made SCOR’s ceding company liable for two distinct occurrences on the basis of the policy wording it had issued. However, the jury verdict did not determine the amount of indemnification due from the insurers. A separate court-supervised appraisal procedure is underway in order to determine the amount of indemnification due by the insurers resulting from the destruction of the WTC towers. Pending the final determination of the appraisal process, which is expected in late 2006 or early 2007, the Group felt that it would be prudent to increase its reserves based on the replacement value estimated by the experts appointed by insurers including our ceding company. The gross amount of reserves was accordingly increased from USD 355 million as of December 31, 2003 to USD 422 million as of December 31, 2004, and net of retrocession from USD 167.5 million to USD 193.5 million. Those amounts did not change significantly in 2005. The jury verdict that the attack on the WTC constituted two occurrences and not one single occurrence under the terms of our ceding company’s insurance policy has been appealed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and a decision is expected in 2006. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of the pending World Trade Center litigation. After the events of September 11, 2001, we adopted underwriting rules designed to exclude or limit our exposure to risks related to terrorism in our reinsurance contracts, in particular in those countries and for the risks that are the most exposed to terrorism. Contracts entered into prior to the implementation of these measures, however, remain unchanged until their expiry date or renewal. In addition, it has not always been possible to implement these measures, particularly in our principal markets. For example, certain European countries do not permit excluding terrorist risks from insurance policies. Due to these regulatory constraints, we have actively supported the creation of insurance and reinsurance pools that involve insurance and reinsurance companies as well as public authorities in order to spread the risks of terrorist activity among the members of these pools. We participate in pools created in certain countries such as France (GAREAT), Germany (Extremus) and the Netherlands (NHT), which allows us to have limited and known commitments. Although the U.S. Congress passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (“TRIA”) in November 2002 and extended it in 2005, which established a federal assistance program, initially through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers, the U.S. insurance market is still subject to significant exposures in respect of terrorism-related losses. SCOR has significantly reduced its exposure to the U.S. market by declining to underwrite reinsurance agreements with large national insurers. In addition to the commitments described above, the Group does reinsure, from time to time, terrorist risks, usually limiting by event and by period as well as geographically the coverage that ceding companies receive for damage caused by terrorist acts. As a result, additional terrorist acts, whether in the U.S. or elsewhere, could cause us significant claims payments and, as a result, could have a significant effect on our operating income, results of operations, financial condition and future profitability. We could be subject to losses as a result of our exposure to environmental and asbestos-related risks. Like other reinsurance companies, we are exposed to environmental and asbestos-related risks, particularly in the United States. Insurers are required under their contracts with us to notify us of any claims or potential claims that they are aware of. However, we often receive notices from insurers of potential claims related to environmental and asbestos risks that are not precise enough, as the primary insurer may not have fully evaluated the risk at the time it notifies us of the claim. Due to the imprecise nature of these claims, the uncertainty surrounding the extent of coverage under insurance policies and whether or not particular claims are subject to an aggregate limit, the number of occurrences involved in particular claims and new theories of insured and insurer liability, we can, like other reinsurers, only give a very approximate estimate of our potential exposure to environmental and asbestos claims that may or may not have been reported. In 2005, we increased the level of reserves for asbestos-related risks by EUR 13 million and reduced our reserves for environmental risks by EUR 15 million following commutations of old contracts issued in Europe. We believe our reserves at December 31, 2005, are sufficient to cover our estimated liabilities relating to environmental and asbestos claims and correspond to approximately eleven years of payments. 9 Table of Contents Nonetheless, due to the changing legal and regulatory environment, including changes in tort law, the evaluation of the final cost of our exposure to asbestos-related and environmental claims may be increasing in uncertain proportions. Diverse factors could increase our exposure to the consequences of asbestos-related risks, such as an increase in the number of claims filed or in the number of persons likely to be covered by these claims. Evaluation of these risks is all the more difficult as claims related to asbestos and environmental pollution are often subject to payments over long periods of time. In these circumstances, it is difficult to estimate the reserves that should be recorded for these risks. We therefore rely on market assessments of survival ratios for reserves although data currently available relate to old underwriting years in the U.S. market to which we are not significantly exposed. As a result of these imprecisions and uncertainties, we cannot exclude the possibility that we could be exposed to significant additional environmental and asbestos claims, which could have an adverse effect on our operating income, results of operations, financial condition and future profitability. If our reserves prove to be inadequate, our net income, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are required to maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liability for Property-Casualty losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period, net of estimated related salvage and subrogation claims. Our reserves are established both on the basis of information that we receive from insurance companies, particularly their own reserving levels, as well as on the basis of our knowledge of the risks, the studies we conduct and the trends we observe on a regular basis. For our Life business, we are required to maintain reserves for future policy benefits that take into account expected investment yields and mortality, morbidity, lapse rate and other assumptions. In our Non Life business, our reserves and policy pricing are based on a number of assumptions and on information provided by third parties, which, if proven to be incorrect, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even though we are entitled to audit the companies with which we do business, and despite our frequent contacts with these companies, our reserving policy remains dependent on the risk evaluations of these companies. The inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves are compounded for reinsurers by the significant periods of time that often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to the primary insurer and ultimately to the reinsurer, the primary insurer’s payment of that loss and subsequent indemnification by the reinsurer, as well as by differing reserving practices among ceding companies and changes in jurisprudence, particularly in the United States. Furthermore, we have significant exposures to a number of business lines in respect of which accurate reserving is known to be particularly difficult because of the “long-tail” nature of these businesses, including workers compensation, liability insurance, and environmental and asbestos-related claims. Our reserves for these lines of business represent a significant portion of our technical reserves, although the proportion has been decreasing as we have increased in our subscriptions the proportion of our Property business relative to our Casualty and liability business. In relation to such claims, it has in the past been necessary to revise our estimated potential loss exposure and, therefore, the related loss reserves. Changes in law, evolving judicial interpretations and theories as well as developments in class action litigation, particularly in the United States, add to the uncertainties inherent to claims of this nature. We annually review the methods for establishing reserves and the amount of our reserves and perform, if necessary, audits of our portfolios. To the extent that our reserves prove to be insufficient, after taking into account available retrocessional coverage, we increase our reserves and incur a charge to earnings, which can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net income and financial condition. We strengthened our reserves on several occasions in 2002 and 2003 following internal and external actuarial reviews. The most recent reserves strengthening occurred at September 30, 2003, when the Group increased its loss reserves by EUR 297 million, EUR 290 million of which was related to adverse trends in loss experience in the United States with respect to business underwritten by SCOR U.S. and CRP over the period 1997-2001. These additional reserves mainly concern lines of business which have now been put in run-off, such as buffer layers and program 10 Table of Contents business, or which have been significantly reduced such as workers compensation. If we are required to increase our reserves in the future, it could materially affect our results and our financial position. In addition, because we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risk we assume. To reduce this risk, we conduct risk audits and regularly visit our ceding companies, and carry out portfolio audits of our business. Our results may be affected by the inability of our reinsurers (retrocessionaires) or members of pools in which we participate to meet their obligations and the availability of retrocessional reinsurance on commercially acceptable terms. We transfer a part of our exposure to certain risks to other reinsurers through retrocession arrangements. Under these arrangements, other reinsurers assume a portion of our losses and expenses associated with losses in exchange for a portion of policy premiums. When we obtain retrocession, we are still liable for those transferred risks if the reinsurer cannot meet its obligations. Therefore, the inability of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations could materially affect our operating results and financial condition. We also assume risk by writing business on a funds withheld basis. Thus, the inability of our reinsurers (retrocessionaires) to meet their financial commitments could negatively affect our operating result and our financial position. We conduct periodic reviews of the financial condition of our reinsurers. Our reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years. For accounts receivable for which a probable loss is expected we book an allowance in our accounts. Furthermore, since our reinsurers do business in the same sectors as we do, events that have an adverse effect on the sector could have the same effect on all of the participants in the reinsurance sector. To reduce these risks, we maintain a prudent policy for the selection of our retrocessionnaires. Moreover, a portion of the accounts receivable due from our retrocessionaires is guaranteed by letters of credit or deposits of our retrocessionnaires. We participate in various pools of insurers and reinsurers in order to spread certain risks, in particular terrorism risks, among the members of the pool. In case of total default of one of the members of a pool, we could be required to assume part of the liabilities and obligations of the member in default, which could affect our financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The reinsurance business is highly competitive. Our position in the reinsurance market is based on many factors, such as perceived financial strength of the reinsurer by ratings agencies, underwriting expertise, reputation and experience in the lines written, the jurisdictions in which the reinsurer is licensed or otherwise authorized to do business, premiums charged, as well as other terms and conditions of the reinsurance offered, services offered and speed of claims payment. We compete for business in the French, European, United States, Asian and other international reinsurance markets with numerous international and domestic reinsurance companies, some of which have a larger market share, greater financial resources and higher ratings from financial ratings agencies than we do. When the supply of reinsurance is greater than the demand from ceding companies, our competitors, some of whom hold higher ratings than us, may be better positioned to enter into new contracts and to gain market share at our expense. From 2003 to mid-2005, our rating had a significant impact on our competitive position. When S&P upgraded our rating on August 1, 2005, it improved our competitive position in our principal markets. However, the fact that we have not obtained an A rating from the AM Best rating agency is currently adversely affecting our operations and our competitive position in the United States, primarily in Life Reinsurance, although we cannot quantify the impact. See “Item 3.D. Risk factors – Ratings are important to our business”. 11 Table of Contents We are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and developments in the debt and equity markets. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability and changes in interest rates and fluctuations in the debt and equity markets could have a material adverse impact on our profitability, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Interest rate fluctuations could have consequences on our return from fixed-maturity securities, as well as the market values of, and corresponding levels of capital gains or losses on the fixed-maturity securities in our investment portfolio. Interest rates and the debt and equity markets are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. During periods of declining interest rates, our annuity and other life insurance products, including the fixed annuities of SCOR Life U.S. Re, may be relatively more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year. During such a period, our investment earnings may be lower because the interest earnings on our fixed-maturity investments likely will have declined in parallel with market interest rates. In addition, our fixed-maturity investments are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as a result of the decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders and returns on our investment portfolio. Conversely, an increase in interest rates, as well as developments in the capital markets, could also lead to unanticipated changes in the pattern of surrender and withdrawal of our fixed annuity and other Life reinsurance products, including the fixed annuities of SCOR Life U.S. Re. These would result in cash outflows that might require the sale of assets at a time when the investment portfolio is negatively affected by increases in interest rates, resulting in losses. We are also exposed to credit risks in the debt securities markets since the financial difficulties of certain issuers and the deterioration of their credit quality could make payment of their obligations uncertain and lead to lower market prices for their fixed-maturity securities, which would affect the value of our investment portfolio. Interest rate risk is managed within the Group primarily at two levels. At the level of each entity, we take into account the asset-liabilities matching policy and the rules of congruence, and local regulatory, accounting and tax constraints. At the central level, we conduct operations to consolidate all portfolios in order to identify the overall risk and return level. Accordingly, the Group has analytic tools that guide both its strategic allocation and local distribution of assets. The sensitivity to changes in interest rates is analyzed on a monthly basis. The Group analyzes the impact of a major change in interest rates on all the portfolios and at the global level. In such a case, the Group identifies the unrealized capital loss that would result from a rise in interest rates and then decides whether a hedging policy should be implemented. We measure the instantaneous unrealized loss due to a uniform increase of 100 basis points in rates or in the case of a distortion of the structures by interest rate terms. The primary risk measurement used is sensitivity or duration. An analysis of the impact on the portfolio may lead to decisions for reallocation or hedging. Interest rate risk is monitored continuously by the Group. Because of our primarily medium-term investment activity that is tied to the duration of liabilities, portfolio rotation is moderate. Thus, average duration at the Group level is relatively stable, which allows for rapid risk assessment. For maturities and interest rates on financial assets and liabilities, and for an analysis of interest rate sensitivity, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 18. Financial Statements” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. 12 Table of Contents We face risks related to our equity-based investments. We are exposed to equity price risk. Stocks of publicly traded companies represented approximately 9% of our investments as of December 31, 2005. The stock markets posted overall gains in 2005, generating capital gains on our equity investments. Conversely, a general and sustained decline in the equity markets would result in a depreciation of our equity portfolio. Such depreciation could affect our operating results and financial condition. Stock investments represent both traditional and strategic assets for the Group. The goal is to develop and manage a quality and diversified portfolio of stocks that will appreciate over the medium term (generally greater than 2 years). We also seek stocks that offer high dividend pay-outs. Thus, the valuation methods we use are mainly based on fundamental criteria. Our exposure to the stock market results both from direct stock purchases and from purchases of shares in mutual funds. Because stocks are more volatile than bonds, this asset class is continually tracked. All stock positions (directly held or held in mutual funds) are aggregated and valued on a daily basis. This approach allows us to monitor changes in the portfolio and to identify the investments with higher than average volatility as soon as possible through use of alert signals. It also facilitates portfolio arbitrage or reallocation decisions. The stock risk is controlled and measured. It is controlled at the level of the Group’s exposure, which is decided by management and regularly reviewed by the Investment Committee (generally once a month). It is also controlled by defining maximum exposures by stock or by mutual fund, which is reviewed on a regular basis (the exposure in large – cap stocks will generally be greater than exposure in mid-cap stocks). The control ratios on mutual funds are also reviewed regularly. To measure the risk, a “stock” beta of 1 is generally used. This assumption consists of considering that the whole portfolio varies homogeneously and with the same magnitude as the stock market, which is true on average. Therefore, the Group has a daily measurement of the change in the unrealized value of the stock portfolio for an instantaneous change of plus or minus 10% in the stock market. Ratings are important to our business. Our ratings are reviewed periodically. Over the course of 2003, our ratings from all the major rating agencies were revised downwards on several occasions and put on watch, particularly after we announced we would be increasing our reserves and announced the amount of our loss for the third quarter of 2003. Although S&P raised our rating from BBB+ to A- on August 1, 2005, we have not yet received an A rating from AM Best, which affects our competitiveness, primarily in the United States. Our Life reinsurance business and large facultative and direct underwriting businesses are particularly sensitive to the way our clients and ceding companies perceive our financial strength as well as to our ratings. Our rating in 2004 made it difficult to renew certain contracts and certain treaties with existing clients and to obtain new clients, particularly in the Life and large Facultatives business and in our direct underwriting segments. In addition, these ratings also led to a reduction by certain ceding companies of their shares in treaties or contracts in 2004. Finally, some of our reinsurance treaties contain termination clauses triggered by ratings. The timing of any changes to our credit ratings is also very important to our business since contracts or treaties in our Life and large Facultives businesses are renewed at various times throughout the year. In the United States, our contracts and treaties are generally renewed on January 1 and July 1. If our rating from AM Best does not improve before these renewal dates, it could have an adverse effect on our revenues in 2006 and 2007. In addition, a part of our business is conducted with U.S. ceding companies for whom state insurance regulations and market practice require that we obtain letters of credit from banks in order to maintain reinsurance contracts. If we are unable to honor our financial commitments under our outstanding credit facilities or if we suffer any ratings downgrade, our financial situation and results could be significantly affected. 13 Table of Contents A significant portion of our treaties contain provisions relating to financial strength, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Some of our reinsurance treaties, in particular in the Scandinavian countries, the United Kingdom and the United States, contain triggers relating to financial strength which entitle our cedents to terminate the relevant treaty upon the occurrence of specified events of default, including a ratings downgrade, our net assets falling below specified thresholds or our carrying out a reduction in share capital. Any such events could allow some of our cedents to terminate their contractual undertakings, which would have a material adverse, but unquantifiable effect on our financial condition. In addition, our main credit facilities contain financial undertakings and provisions with respect to our financial position, the breach of which could constitute an event of default and cause a suspension in the use of these credit facilities and prevent us from obtaining new credit facilities, which could, in certain circumstances, have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We face a number of significant liquidity requirements in the short to medium-term. The main sources of revenue from our reinsurance operations are premiums, revenues from investing activities, and realized capital gains. The bulk of these funds are used to pay out claims and related expenses, together with other operating costs. Our operations generate cash flows due to the fact that most premiums are received prior to the date at which claims must be paid out. Historically, these positive operating cash flows, together with the portion of the investment portfolio held directly in cash or highly liquid securities, have always allowed us to meet the cash demands entailed by our operating activities. • In 2002, we issued EUR 200 million of unsubordinated notes repayable on June 21, 2007. • In June 2004, we issued EUR 200 million of OCEANE bonds at par value, which are bonds convertible or exchangeable for new or existing shares. The OCEANE bonds will be fully redeemed in 2010. We used the proceeds from the OCEANE bond issuance, together with available cash, to repay our 1999 OCEANE bonds that matured on January 1, 2005 for an aggregate amount of approximately EUR 235 million. Despite the level of cash generated by SCOR’s ordinary activities, we may be required to seek full or partial external debt or equity financing in order to meet some or all of the foregoing payments. The amount of any required external financing will depend in the first place on the Group’s available cash. Our decision to withdraw from some business lines has significantly reduced our premium income, which may further affect our cash flow. In addition, a significant portion of our assets in life reinsurance are collateralized for the purpose of guaranteeing either letters of credit obtained from banks for the purpose of writing reinsurance contracts with ceding companies, or payment of loss claims made by ceding companies. These liabilities amount to EUR 2,080 million and restrict our capacity to increase cash by means of asset disposals. The credit agreements were renewed in 2005. Furthermore, cash available in Group subsidiaries may not be transferable to the Company, subject to local regulations and because of these subsidiaries’ own cash requirements. Moreover, access to additional outside financing depends on a range of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, market conditions, investor perceptions of our industry sector of activity and our financial condition. In addition, our ability to raise new financings depends on clauses in our outstanding finance contracts and on our credit ratings. We cannot guarantee that we will be in a position to obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially acceptable terms. If we were unable to do so, the pursuit of our business development strategy and our financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to the risk on foreign exchange rates. We publish our consolidated financial statements in euros, but a significant part of our income and expenses, as well as our assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the euro. Consequently, fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate these currencies into euros may have a significant impact on SCOR’s reported results of operations and net equity from year to year. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates can have consequences on our results of operations and net equity because of the conversion of income, expenses, assets and liabilities in foreign currencies. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Group’s foreign exchange loss was EUR 81 million, compared with a gain of EUR 37 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, the shareholders’ equity of some entities of our Group is stated in a currency other than the euro, specifically U.S. dollars. As a result, changes in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into euros, and in particular the movements of the U.S. dollar against the euro in recent years have had and may in the future have a negative impact on our consolidated net equity. However, during 2005, the appreciation of the dollar generated a positive translation adjustment of EUR 110 million in the Group’s equity. These changes in the value of the equity of our subsidiaries are not currently hedged by the Group. For the consolidated net position of assets and liabilities by currency, and for an analysis of sensitivity to exchange rates, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Our Non Life subsidiaries in the United States have been facing financial difficulties. The operations of our Non Life subsidiaries in the U.S. include on-going business and businesses in run-off. Such businesses in run-off have deteriorated, principally because of increases in claims for the underwriting years 1997 to 2001, the impact of the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001 and the claims experience of the workers’ compensation and credit surety business lines. Based on U.S. risk-based capital requirements, we recapitalized our U.S. subsidiaries in 2003, 2004 and 2005 through share capital increases, for a total amount of approximately USD 402 million or through granting loans. As a result of these share capital increases, active management of businesses in run-off, a reduction in the volume of premiums underwritten in 2005 and careful cost management, the level of assets and solvency margin of our U.S. subsidiaries were substantially larger than U.S. regulatory requirements as of December 31, 2005. Our U.S. reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries are required to file financial reports in the states in which they are licensed or authorized, prepared in accordance with the accounting principles and methods prescribed by the New York State Insurance Department, or NYID, and other state regulators where their headquarters are located. We face risks due to changes in government regulations and legal proceedings and developments. As of this date, we are subject to detailed, comprehensive regulation and supervision by insurance and reinsurance authorities in all the countries in which we do business. Changes in existing laws and regulations may affect the way in which we conduct our business and the products we may offer or the amount of reserves to be posted, including on claims already declared. Regulatory agencies controlling insurance and reinsurance activities have broad administrative power over many aspects of the reinsurance industry and we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory initiatives. Furthermore, government regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders or creditors. The diverse regulations governing our industry would be reduced after the transposition of Directive 2005/68/EC of November 16, 2005 (the “Directive”) which confers control of a European Community reinsurance company exclusively to the regulatory authority in the country in which the company is headquartered. Moreover, under this Directive, a regulation governing technical reserves, solvency margins and guarantee funds would apply to European reinsurers as of December 10, 2007 or, if national lawmakers use the option granted by the Directive to provide an additional 12-month period to allow reinsurers already established to comply with new prudential requirements, as of December 10, 2008. The Directive defines the minimum conditions common to all member States of the European Community, and gives national legislators the option to set more stringent requirements. The national provisions adopted for the transposition of this Directive, as well as other legislative or regulatory changes, could increase the harmonization of regulations governing reinsurers with the regulations governing insurers. These new regulations and statutes may over time restrict our ability to write new contracts or treaties. Moreover, we are involved in legal and arbitration proceedings in certain jurisdictions, particularly in Europe and the United States. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings”. Negative changes in laws or 15 Table of Contents regulations or an adverse outcome of these proceedings could have a material adverse affect on our business, cash position, financial condition and results of operations. The reinsurance industry is also affected by political, judicial, social and other legal developments, which have at times in the past resulted in new or expanded theories of liability. For example, we could be subject to new regulations that impose additional coverage obligations on us beyond our underwriting intent, or to increases in the number or size of claims to which we are subject. We cannot predict the future impact of changing political, judicial, legal or social developments on our operations and any changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash position. Political, legal, regulatory and industry initiatives relating to the insurance industry, including investigations into contingent commission arrangements and certain finite risk or non-traditional insurance products could adversely affect our business and industry. Recently, the insurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of current litigation, investigations and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the payment of contingent commissions by insurance companies to insurance brokers and agents and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, the accounting treatment for finite reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance and reinsurance products. At this time, it is not possible to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations may have upon the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the reinsurance sector. In addition, public authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide are carefully examining the potential risks posed by the reinsurance industry as a whole, and their consequences on commercial and financial systems in general. While these inquiries have not identified meaningful new risks that the reinsurance industry poses to the financial system or to policyholders, and while the exact nature, timing or scope of possible public initiatives cannot be predicted, it is likely there could be increased regulation of the reinsurance business in the future. Our business and future profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected by the run-off of certain of our lines of business in the United States and in Bermuda. In January 2003, we put CRP’s operations in run-off and according to the “Back on Track” plan we launched in 2002, we have determined to withdraw from certain other lines of business at our SCOR U.S. operations. We have organized these operations as “run off” and have put management in place to implement the management and commutation of these businesses. The costs and liabilities associated with these run-off businesses and other contingent liabilities could cause the Group to take additional charges that could be material to the Group’s results of operations. A significant part of our strategy regarding the run-off of certain of our operations in the United States includes the commutation of the risks held by our Bermudian subsidiary, CRP, and some of the risks subscribed in the U.S. by SCOR U.S. The outstanding reserve levels have been substantially reduced and from December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2005, dropped by approximately 55% over the period. However, there cannot be any assurance that the remaining commutations will be achieved within a foreseeable time, as this depends largely on the cooperation of the ceding companies. Our shareholders’ equity is sensitive to the value of our intangible assets. A significant portion of our assets is comprised of intangible assets, the value of which is to a large extent dependent on our future operating performance. The valuation of intangible assets also requires us to make subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If there is a change in the assumptions supporting our intangible assets, we may be required to write them down in whole or in part, thereby further reducing our capital base. 16 Table of Contents The amount of goodwill we carry in our consolidated accounts may also be impacted by business and market conditions. As of December 31, 2005, we carried EUR 228 million of goodwill as a result of acquisitions, primarily of South Barrington in 1996 and Sorema S.A. and Sorema N.A. in 2001. In order to evaluate any potential impairment of goodwill, an impairment test of goodwill is performed every year according to FAS 142 on the same date and more frequently if an unfavorable event occurs between two annual tests. Impairment is recognized when the net book value is greater than the fair value. The result of the test performed justifies the goodwill recognized in our accounts. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total amount of EUR 158 million in net deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance. The recognition of deferred tax assets is based on the applicable tax legislation and accounting methods and also depends on the expected performance of each unit, which determines the recoverability of these deferred tax assets in the future. At each annual financial statement closing, we are required to assess the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. Because of the losses suffered, we were required in 2003 to provide a 100% valuation allowance on all deferred tax assets of SCOR U.S. In 2005, SCOR U.S. recorded a loss, however, a 100% valuation allowance was applied for the deferred tax assets arising as a result of the current year net operating loss. The recoverability test also led us to fully depreciate the deffered tax assets of our Bermudian subsidiary, CRP. As regards the French companies of the Group, the recoverability test led us to a booking of a valuation allowance of EUR 132 million at year end 2004, and, reflecting the expected improvement in future performance, the booking of a valuation allowance of EUR 21 million at year end 2005. No valuation allowance has been recorded on the deferred taxes of the other companies of the Group. Nevertheless, the occurrence of other events could lead to the loss of other deferred tax assets, such as changes in tax legislation or accounting methods, operational earnings lower than currently projected or losses continuing over a longer period than originally planned. All of these developments or each of them separately could have a significant negative impact on our financial position and our results of operation. Acquisition costs, including commissions and underwriting costs, are recognized as assets up to a maximum of the profitability of the contracts. They are amortized on the basis of the residual term of the contracts in Non-Life, and on the basis of the recognition of future margins for Life contracts. As a result, the assumptions considered concerning the recoverable nature of the deferred acquisition costs are affected by factors such as operating results and market conditions. If the assumptions for recoverability of deferred acquisition costs are incorrect, it would then be necessary to accelerate amortization, which could have a substantial negative effect on our financial position. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, and these material weaknesses or the identification of any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports and could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. In connection with the filing of our 2004 20-F, we restated our U.S. GAAP financial statements as a result of a number of errors that we identified. In addition, in connection with their audit of our 2004 fiscal year financial statements, our auditors, Ernst & Young, notified us that they had identified two material weaknesses in our controls over U.S. GAAP financial reporting. Our failure to significantly improve our U.S. GAAP financial statement closing process led our auditors to determine, in connection with their audit of our 2005 fiscal year financial statements, that the material weakness with respect to their audit of the 2004 fiscal year continues to exist, and accordingly notified us that they had identified matters involving internal control and its operation that they consider to be a material weakness under standards established by the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures”. While we intend to take certain actions to address the identified material weaknesses, these measures may not be sufficient to address the issues identified or to ensure that our internal controls are effective. If any material weaknesses in our internal control are identified in the future, unless we are able to correct such deficiencies in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected which could, in turn, materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will initially apply to SCOR for its Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risk is inherent in our business. Operational risk and losses can result from business interruption, misconduct or fraud, errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, poor vendor performance or external events. We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are fundamental to our business. Moreover, our proprietary technology and applications have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. Our information technology is subject to the risk of breakdowns and outages, disruptions due to viruses, attacks by hackers and theft of data. A major defect or failure in our information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, increased expense or financial loss. The potential impact of these risks is considered from a qualitative and not a quantitative standpoint. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation actions are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our information technology and application systems, or are in the process of being formalized and implemented. If this turned out not to be the case, the adverse effect on our business could be significant. It may not be possible for shareholders to effect service of legal process, enforce judgments of courts outside of France or bring actions based on securities laws of jurisdictions other than France against SCOR or members of its Board of Directors and executive officers. SCOR and a majority of the members of its Board of Directors and executive officers are residents of France and other countries other than the United States. In addition, the assets of SCOR and the members of its Board of Directors and executive officers are located in whole or in substantial part outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process within the United States upon most of our directors and executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be enforceable in French courts. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us in the United States may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgment. The trading price of SCOR’s ADSs and dividends paid on SCOR’s ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euros into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euros into U.S. dollars may affect the value of SCOR’s ADSs. Specifically, as the relative value of the euro against the U.S. dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: • the U.S. dollar equivalent of the euro trading prices of SCOR Ordinary Shares on Euronext, which may consequently cause the trading price of SCOR’s ADSs in the United States to also decline; • the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of SCOR’s ADSs would receive upon the sale in France of any SCOR Ordinary Share withdrawn from the Depositary; and 18 Table of Contents • the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in euros on the SCOR Ordinary Shares represented by SCOR’s ADSs. The holders of SCOR’s ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights due to delays in notification to and by the Depositary. The Depositary for SCOR’s ADSs may not receive voting materials for SCOR Ordinary Shares represented by SCOR’s ADSs in time to ensure that holders of SCOR’s ADSs can instruct the Depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the Depositary’s liability to holders of SCOR’s ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the deposit agreement governing the SCOR ADSs. As a result, holders of SCOR’s ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may not have any recourse against the Depositary or SCOR if their shares are not voted as they have requested. SCOR’s ADS and Ordinary Shares price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly and you may not be able to sell your ADSs or Ordinary Shares at or above the price you paid. The price at which SCOR’s ADSs and Ordinary Shares will trade may be influenced by a large number of factors, some of which will be specific to us and our operations and some of which will be related to the insurance industry and equity markets generally. As a result of these factors, you may not be able to resell your ADSs or Ordinary Shares at or above the prices which you paid for them. In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of SCOR’s ADSs or Ordinary Shares: • a downgrade or rumored downgrade of SCOR’s credit or financial strength ratings, including placement on credit watch; • potential litigation involving SCOR or the insurance industry generally; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities research analysts; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates; • the performance of other companies in the insurance sector; • regulatory and legal developments in the principal markets in which SCOR operates; • international political and economic conditions, including the effects of terrorism attacks, military operations and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments; • investor perception of SCOR, including actual or anticipated variations in its revenues or operating results; • announcements by SCOR of acquisitions, disposals or financings or speculation about such acquisitions, disposals or financings; • changes in SCOR’s dividend policy, which could result from changes in its cash flow and capital position; • sales of blocks of SCOR’s shares by shareholders; and • general economic and market conditions. 