Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussions describe and analyze the Company’s financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. The Company’s prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. The Company, therefore, has included the following discussion of certain factors that could affect the Company’s future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause the Company’s future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing the Company’s future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results have resulted in reporting losses. National reported losses of approximately $6 million and $21.0 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. National’s losses were primarily attributable to the volatile market conditions in fiscal year 2008 and the generally slow recovery in customer activity volume due to significant investor losses in 2008. In addition, the Company took an impairment of $12.9 million on its intangible asset it acquired in the merger with vFinance in fiscal year ended 2008. The market slowdowns and reduced trading activity and volatility, and the cessation of National’s market making activities prior to the Merger, in addition to vFinance’s substantial losses due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset those operating expenses contributed as well. There is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may need to curtail, suspend or terminate certain operations. We may require additional financing. In order for us to have the opportunity for future success and profitability, we periodically may need to obtain additional financing, either through borrowings, public offerings, private offerings, or some type of business combination (e.g., merger, buyout, etc.). We have actively pursued a variety of funding sources, and have consummated certain transactions in order to address its capital requirements. We may need to seek to raise additional capital through other available sources, including borrowing additional funds from third parties and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such pursuits. Additionally, the issuance of new securities to raise capital will cause the dilution of shares held by current stockholders. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate adequate cash from its operations, and if we are unable to find sources of funding, such an event would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to pay our outstanding debt obligations when due, our operations may be materially adversely affected. At September 30, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $7,350,000, of which $850,000 is subordinated debt and $500,000 is a nonconvertible note maturing in May 2010. We cannot assure you that our operations will generate funds sufficient to repay our existing debt obligations as they come due. Our failure to repay our indebtedness and make interest payments as required by our debt obligations could have a material adverse affect on our operations. We are exposed to risks due to its investment banking activities. Participation in an underwriting syndicate or a selling group involves both economic and regulatory risks. An underwriter may incur losses if it is unable to resell the securities it is committed to purchase, or if it is forced to liquidate its commitment at less than the purchase price. In addition, under federal securities laws, other laws and court decisions with respect to underwriters' liabilities and limitations on the indemnification of underwriters by issuers, an underwriter is subject to substantial potential liability for misstatements or omissions of material facts in prospectuses and other communications with respect to such offerings. Acting as a managing underwriter increases these risks. Underwriting commitments constitute a charge against net capital and our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that it must at all times be in compliance with the net capital rule. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. 10 We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. We believe that we are able to evaluate and manage the market, credit and other risks to which it is exposed. Nonetheless, our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers as well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk. We depend on senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business. We depend on the continued services of our management team, particularly Mr. Goldwasser, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sokolow, our Vice Chairman and President, and Mr. Dewey, our Vice Chairman, as well as our ability to hire additional members of management, and to retain and motivate other officers and key employees. We may not be able to find an appropriate replacement for Messrs. Goldwasser, Sokolow or Dewey or any other executive officer if the need should arise. We currently maintain a $6,000,000 life insurance policy on Mr. Goldwasser. Due to the regulated nature of some of our businesses, some of our executive officers, or other key personnel could become subject to suspensions or other limitations on the scope of their services to the Company from time to time. If we lose the services of any executive officers or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage and grow our operations effectively, enter new brokerage markets or develop new products. Our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries are subject to various risks associated with the securities industry. As securities broker-dealers, our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries are subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: · the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets; · extensive governmental regulation; · litigation; · intense competition; · substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and · dependence on the solvency of various third parties. As a result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In periods of low volume, profitability is impaired because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. In the event of a market downturn, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if it were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, its profit margins would erode. Failure to comply with the net capital requirements could subject us to sanctions imposed by the SEC or FINRA. Our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries are subject to the SEC's net capital rule which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. National Securities, vFinance Investments, and EquityStation are each required to maintain $250,000, $250,000 and $100,000 in minimum net capital, respectively. Due to its market maker status, vFinance Investments is required to maintain a specified amount of capital for each security that it makes a market in, based on the bid price of each stock. This required amount can exceed the minimum net capital requirement, and in the case of vFinance Investments, the minimum Net Capital Requirement has been $1,000,000 (the limit) in recent years. The net capital rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Compliance with the net capital rule limits those operations of broker-dealers that require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The rule also limits the ability of securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness, such as subordinated debt, as it matures. FINRA may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm's net capital. If the calculation reveals a deficiency in net capital, FINRA may immediately restrict or suspend certain or all of the activities of a broker-dealer. Our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or their net capital may fall below requirements established by the SEC, and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. In addition, if these net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain its present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may become subject to net capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or which it may enter. We cannot predict its future capital needs or its ability to obtain additional financing. 11 Our business could be adversely affected by a breakdown in the financial markets. As a securities broker-dealer, the business of each of our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Many factors or events could lead to a breakdown in the financial markets including war, terrorism, natural catastrophes and other types of disasters. These types of events could cause people to begin to lose confidence in the financial markets and their ability to function effectively. If the financial markets are unable to effectively prepare for these types of events and ease public concern over their ability to function, our revenues are likely to decline and our operations are likely to be adversely affected. Our revenues may decline in adverse market or economic conditions. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions may reduce the number and size of the transactions in which we provide underwriting services, merger and acquisition consulting and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory, placement agent and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which it participates and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. Additionally, a downturn in market conditions could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues it receives from commissions and spreads. We must review customer relationships for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may be present, which may result in a material, non-cash write down of customer relationships. A significant decrease in revenues or cash flows derived from acquired customer relationships could result in a material, non-cash write-down of customer relationships. Such impairment would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity. Market fluctuations and volatility may reduce our revenues and profitability. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity, such as the asset price deterioration in the subprime residential mortgage market. Our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity. Additionally, our profitability may be adversely affected by losses from the trading or underwriting of securities or failure of third parties to meet commitments. We act as a market maker in publicly traded common stocks. In market making transactions, we undertake the risk of price changes or being unable to resell the common stock it holds or being unable to purchase the common stock it has sold. These risks are heightened by the illiquidity of many of the common stocks we trade and/or make a market. Any losses from our trading activities, including as a result of unauthorized trading by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions, as well as losses from declines in the market value of common stocks held for trading purposes. During periods of declining volume and revenue, our profitability would be adversely affected. Declines in market values of common stocks and the failure of issuers and third parties to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets. We generally maintain trading and investment positions in the equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of such long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions in any of those markets, an upturn could expose it to potentially unlimited losses as it attempts to cover its short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We may, from time to time, have a trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one asset and a short position in another from which it expects to earn revenues based on changes in the relative value of the two assets. If, however, the relative value of the two assets changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or against which we have not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired positions. In addition, we maintain trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. In addition, because our interests in the firm’s subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. 12 Competition with other financial firms may have a negative effect on our business. We compete directly with national and regional full-service broker-dealers and a broad range of other financial service firms, including banks and insurance companies. Competition has increased as smaller securities firms have either ceased doing business or have been acquired by or merged into other firms. Mergers and acquisitions have increased competition from these firms, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. Many of these firms offer their customers more products and research than currently offered by us. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. We also face competition from companies offering discount and/or electronic brokerage services, including brokerage services provided over the Internet, which we are currently not offering and do not intend to offer in the foreseeable future. These competitors may have lower costs or provide more services, and may offer their customers more favorable commissions, fees or other terms than those offered by the Company. To the extent that issuers and purchasers of securities transact business without our assistance, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not continue to develop and enhance our services in a timely manner, our business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and enhance our services and add new services. We operate in a very competitive industry in which the ability to develop and deliver advanced services through the Internet and other channels is a key competitive factor. There are significant risks in the development of new or enhanced services, including the risks that we will be unable to: · effectively use new technologies; · adapt its services to emerging industry or regulatory standards; or · market new or enhanced services. If we are unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced services quickly enough to respond to market or customer requirements or to comply with emerging industry standards, or if these services do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be seriously harmed. We are currently subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and our business are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, the MSRB and the NFA. Our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and member firms of FINRA. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and supervision, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record keeping, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could cause use to change the way we conducts our business, which could adversely affect the Company. Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to the Company involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. If we are found to have violated an applicable regulation, administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in a censure, fine, civil penalties, issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the deregistration or suspension of our broker-dealer activities, the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees, or other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We rely on clearing brokers and unilateral termination of the agreements with these clearing brokers could disrupt our business. Our Broker Dealer Subsidiaries are introducing brokerage firms, using third party clearing brokers to process its securities transactions and maintain customer accounts. The clearing brokers also provide billing services, extend credit and provide for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. We depend on the operational capacity and ability of the clearing brokers for the orderly processing of transactions. In addition, by engaging the processing services of a clearing firm, we are exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If the clearing agreements are unilaterally terminated for any reason, we would be forced to find alternative clearing firms without adequate time to negotiate the terms of a new clearing agreement and without adequate time to plan for such change. There can be no assurance that if there were a unilateral termination of its clearing agreement that we would be able to find an alternative clearing firm on acceptable terms to it or at all. 13 We permit our clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the clearing firm extends credit to the client secured by cash and securities in the client's account. During periods of volatile markets, the value of the collateral held by the clearing brokers could fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing brokers sell or buy securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. We have agreed to indemnify the clearing brokers for losses they incur while extending credit to its clients. Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include trading counterparts, customers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses, and other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties, executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries, and extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets. Adverse results of current litigation and potential securities law liability would result in financial losses and divert management's attention to business. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. There is a risk of litigation and arbitration within the securities industry, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. We are subject to potential claims by dissatisfied customers, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. We may be liable for the unauthorized acts of its retail brokers if it fails to adequately supervise their conduct. As an underwriter, we may be subject to substantial potential liability under federal and state law and court decisions, including liability for material misstatements and omissions in securities offerings. We may be required to contribute to a settlement, defense costs or a final judgment in legal proceedings or arbitrations involving a past underwriting and in actions that may arise in the future. We carry "Errors and Omissions" insurance to protect against arbitrations; however, the policy is limited in items and amounts covered and there can be no assurance that it will cover a particular complaint. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving us and/or our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We face significant competition for registered representatives. We are dependent upon the independent contractor model for its retail brokerage business. A significant percentage of our retail registered representatives are independent contractors. We are exposed to the risk that a large group of independent contractors could leave the firm or decide to affiliate with another firm and that it will be unable to recruit suitable replacements. A loss of a large group of our independent contractors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue in the retail brokerage business. The precautions we take to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not be effective, and we could be exposed to unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. We run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include: · employees binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks to us; · employees hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from us; or · the improper use of confidential information. These types of misconduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses to us including regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective. If employee misconduct does occur, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 Internet and internal computer system failures or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. Although a significant portion of our business is conducted using traditional methods of contact and communications such as face-to-face meetings, a portion of its business is conducted through the Internet. We could experience system failures and degradations in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent an extended system failure if any of the following events occur: · human error; · subsystem, component, or software failure; · a power or telecommunications failure; · an earthquake, fire, or other natural disaster or act of God; · hacker attacks or other intentional acts of vandalism; or · terrorist acts or war. Failure to adequately protect the integrity of our computer systems and safeguard the transmission of confidential information could harm our business. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. We do not believe that we have experienced any security breaches in the transmission of confidential information. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise of the technology or other algorithms used by our vendors and us to protect client transaction and other data. Any compromise of our systems or security could harm our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock has low trading volume and any sale of a significant number of shares is likely to depress the trading price. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Traditionally, the trading volume of the common stock has been limited. For example, for the 30 trading days ending on September 30, 2009, the average daily trading volume was approximately 27,155 shares per day and on certain days there was no trading activity. During such 30-day period the closing price of the National common stock ranged from a high of $0.72 to a low of $0.50. Because of this limited trading volume, holders of our securities may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of such shares, and any attempted sale of a large number of our shares will likely have a material adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Because of the limited number of shares being traded, the per share price is subject to volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid price swings in the future. The conversion or exercise of our outstanding convertible securities stock may result in dilution to our common stockholders. Dilution of the per share value of our common shares could result from the conversion of most or all of the currently outstanding shares of our preferred stock and from the exercise of the currently outstanding convertible securities. Preferred Stock - We currently have 42,957 shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding, which are convertible, in total, into 3,436,560 shares of common stock. Warrants and Options - We currently have outstanding warrants to purchase 2,090,473 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.75 to $4.46 per share and options to purchase 5,912,165 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.64 to $2.57 per share. Convertible Notes - We currently have outstanding $6,000,000 principal amount of convertible promissory notes which are convertible into an aggregate of 3,375,000 shares of common stock at conversion prices of $1.60 or $2.00 per share. The exercise of these warrants and options, and conversion of the Series A preferred shares and convertible notes, and the sale of the underlying common stock, or even the potential of such conversion or exercise and sale, may have a depressive effect on the market price of our securities and the exercise or conversion of such securities will cause dilution to our stockholders. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected, since the holders of the outstanding convertible securities can be expected to convert or exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided by the outstanding options and warrants. Dilution could create significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock if the conversion or exercise of these securities encouraged short sales. Even the mere perception of eventual sales of common shares issued on the conversion of these securities could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 15 The price of our common stock is volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. The market price of its common stock may be highly volatile as a result of factors specific to us and the securities markets in general. Factors affecting volatility may include: variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of its competitors; economic conditions in general; and changes in applicable laws or regulations, or their judicial or administrative interpretations affecting us or our subsidiaries or the securities industry. In addition, volatility of the market price of our common stock is further affected by its thinly traded nature. We have restricted shares outstanding that may depress the price of our common stock. As of September 30, 2009, of the 17,151,704 outstanding shares of our common stock, approximately 2,900,000 shares may be deemed restricted shares and, in the future, may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144, as amended, provides that a person who is not affiliated with the Company holding restricted securities for six months may sell such shares without restriction. A person who is affiliated with us and who has held restricted securities for six months may sell such shares in brokerage transactions, subject to limitations based on the number of shares outstanding and trading volume. Such sales may have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock in the open market. Our principal stockholders including its directors and officers control a large percentage of shares of our common stock and can significantly influence our corporate actions. As of September 30, 2009, our executive officers, directors and/or entities that these individuals are affiliated with, owned approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A preferred stock, and excluding stock options, warrants and convertible notes, or approximately 46% on a fully-diluted basis. Accordingly, these individuals and entities will be able to significantly influence most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors, the appointment of officers, and potential merger or acquisition transactions Because our common stock may be subject to "penny stock" rules, the market for our common stock may be limited. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time the common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, and we do not have net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000 or average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years, transactions in the common stock may be subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers that recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors: · must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and which describe the market for these "penny stocks" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our securities. There are risks associated with our common stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than on a national exchange. There may be significant consequences associated with our common stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our common stock securities on a national exchange include: · limited release of the market price of our securities; · limited news coverage; · limited interest by investors in our securities; · volatility of our common stock price due to low trading volume; · increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to "blue sky" restrictions; and · limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. 16 Our board of directors can issue shares of "blank check" preferred stock without further action by our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to issue up to 200,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions in each series of the preferred stock, including: · dividend rights; · conversion rights; · voting rights, which may be greater or lesser than the voting rights of our common stock; · rights and terms of redemption; · liquidation preferences; and · sinking fund terms. There are currently 50,000 shares of Series A preferred stock authorized, with 42,957 of such shares issued and outstanding. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and the likelihood that these holders will receive dividends and payments upon our liquidation and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Other than the issuance of additional shares of our Series A preferred stock as in-kind dividends, we have no current plans to issue any additional preferred stock in the next twelve months, although the issuance of preferred stock may be necessary in order to raise additional capital. We will be subject to new requirements that we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance initiatives that may expose certain risks. For the year ended September 30, 2009, we are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on its internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. For the year ending September 30, 2010, an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal controls will also be required. We cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if its auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an a material adverse effect on our business. Our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require significant expenses and management resources that would need to be diverted from our other operations and could require a restructuring of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on its operations. The applicability of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our boards of directors, or to serve as executive officers. We do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Other than dividends paid on our Series A preferred stock, we expect to retain all future earnings, if any, for investment in our business. In addition, our Certificates of Designation setting forth the relative rights and preferences of its Series A preferred stock, as well as our outstanding convertible notes, may limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Item 