Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual future activities and results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in forward-looking statements made by us. These risks and uncertainties include: Fluctuations in Our Operating Results. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may affect our stock price. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Trends in technology spending in the marketplace and general economic conditions. • The timing and size of new and renewal memberships for our research services from clients. • The utilization of our advisory services by our clients. • The timing of revenue-generating Events sponsored by us. • The introduction and marketing of new products and services by us and our competitors. • The hiring and training of new analysts and sales personnel. • Changes in demand for our research and advisory services. As a result, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. Factors such as announcements of new products, services, offices, or strategic alliances by us or the technologies services industry may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by movements in prices of stocks in general. Our Business May be Adversely Affected by an Economic Downturn. Our business is in part dependent on technology spending. If current conditions in the United States economy were to lead to an economic downturn or recession with a resultant decrease in technology spending, this in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A Decline in Renewals for Our Membership-Based Research Services. Our success depends in large part upon renewals of memberships for our research products. Approximately 75%, 77%, and 78% of our client companies with memberships expiring during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, renewed one or more memberships for our products and services. These renewal rates are not necessarily indicative of the rate of future retention of our revenue base. Any future declines in renewal rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Ability To Develop and Offer New Products And Services. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to offer new products and services. These new products and services must successfully gain market acceptance by addressing specific industry and business organization sectors and by anticipating and identifying changes in client requirements and changes in the technology industry. The process of internally researching, 8 developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new product or service, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product or service, is risky and costly. We may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, products or services successfully. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to maintain a competitive position in our market and continue to grow our business. Loss of Key Management. Our future success will depend in large part upon the continued services of a number of our key management employees. The loss of any one of them, in particular George F. Colony, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, could adversely affect our business. The Ability To Attract and Retain Qualified Professional Staff. Our future success will depend in large measure upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, research analysts, and experienced sales and marketing personnel. Thus, our future operating results will be largely dependent upon our ability to retain the services of these individuals and to attract additional professionals from a limited pool of qualified candidates. We experience competition in hiring and retaining professionals from developers of Internet and emerging-technology products, other research firms, management consulting firms, print and electronic publishing companies and financial services companies, many of which have substantially greater ability, either through cash or equity, to attract and compensate professionals. If we lose professionals or are unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in the market or grow our business. Failure To Anticipate and Respond To Market Trends. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt our research to meet the changing information needs of our clients. The technology and commerce sectors that we analyze undergo frequent and often dramatic changes. The environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. Any failure to continue to provide insightful and timely analysis of developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on our market position and results of operations. Competition. We compete in the market for research products and services with other independent providers of similar services. We may also face increased competition from Internet-based research firms. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, information-gathering, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our indirect competitors include the internal planning and marketing staffs of our current and prospective clients, as well as other information providers such as electronic and print publishing companies, survey-based general market research firms and general business consulting firms. Our indirect competitors may choose to compete directly against us in the future. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our market, and new competitors could readily seek to compete against us in one or more market segments addressed by our products and services. Increased competition could adversely affect our operating results through pricing pressure and loss of market share. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could lead to errors in our financial statements and a lack of investor confidence in us and a resulting decline in our stock price. We had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006 relating to the proper accounting for non-cash stock based compensation and additionally in 2006 the income tax accounting for goodwill expense that resulted in restatements of our historical financial statements. Internal controls that do not meet applicable accounting and auditing standards could result in errors in our financial statements and lead investors to question the reliability and accuracy of our reported financial information. Any such lack of confidence in the financial information that we produce could cause investors to sell our stock and result in a decline in our stock price. We face risks related to the restatement of our financial statements and the ongoing SEC investigation regarding our historical stock-based compensation practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has commenced a formal inquiry into our historical stock-based compensation practices. We are cooperating with the SEC and will continue to do so as the inquiry moves forward. At this point, we are unable to predict what, if any, consequences the SEC investigation may have on us. However, the investigation has resulted in considerable expenses, has diverted management’s attention from other business concerns, and could harm our business. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or fines and could 9 become subject to an administrative order and/or a cease and desist order. Further, the resolution of the SEC investigation could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. In addition, there can be no assurance that the SEC will accept the Company’s approach for establishing the correct measurement dates for stock options granted during the restatement period or that the Company’s assumptions with respect to the related tax effects will not be challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. Due to our current inability to sell certain of our Auction Rate Securities, the securities may experience an other-than-temporary decline in value, and funds associated with the securities may be inaccessible for in excess of 12 months, which could result in a material adverse impact to our financial condition and results of operations. Our marketable securities portfolio, which totaled $195.8 million at December 31, 2007, includes Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”) of $120.2 million from various issuers collateralized by student loans and municipal debt. ARSs are securities with long-term contractual maturities but with interest rates that are reset every seven to thirty-five days by auctions. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. During February 2008, certain ARSs that we hold experienced failed auctions that limited the liquidity of these securities. Based on current market conditions, it is likely that auction failures will continue and could result in either temporary or other-than-temporary impairments of our ARS holdings, which totaled $63.4 million (of which $22.5 million had failed) as of February 29, 2008 (the $56.8 million difference between the $120.2 million of ARSs held at December 31, 2007 and the $63.4 million held as of February 29, 2008 represents successful net sales of these securities at par value). The Company has the ability and intent to hold these securities until a successful auction occurs and the ARSs are liquidated at par value. If in the future we determine that any decline in value of the ARSs is other-than-temporary, we would have to recognize the loss in our statement of income, which could have a material impact on our operating results in the period it is recognized. Further, as the funds associated with the ARSs may not be accessible for in excess of twelve months because of continued failed auctions or our inability to find a buyer outside of the auction process, we may classify these securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2008, or thereafter. This list of uncertainties and risks is not exhaustive. Certain factors that could affect our actual future activities and results and cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by us include, but are not limited to, those discussed above as well as those discussed in other reports filed by us with the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 