ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to our other disclosures set forth or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors could also affect our financial condition and results of operations: Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending. If the economy weakens or client spending declines further, then our revenues, book of business, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending, such as budget cuts related to federal sequestration, the October 2013 federal government shutdown, changes in oil and natural gas prices, and limited pipeline capacity for oil produced in the Canadian oil sands. Such downturns or reductions could delay, curtail or cancel proposed and existing projects. Over the past several years, weak economic conditions and volatility in global financial markets have impacted our client spending. Some clients have delayed, curtailed or cancelled proposed and existing projects and may continue to do so in the future. For example, our book of business has declined from $24.9 billion as of December 28, 2012 to $22.8 billion as of January 3, 2014. Also, our clients may demand more favorable pricing terms and find it increasingly difficult to timely pay invoices for our services, which would impact our future cash flows and liquidity. In addition, any rapid changes in the prices of commodities make it difficult for our clients and us to forecast future capital expenditures. Significant changes in interest rates could reduce the demand for our services. Any inability to timely collect our invoices may lead to an increase in our accounts receivable and potentially to increased write-offs of uncollectible invoices. If the economy remains weak or uncertain, or client spending declines further, then our revenues, book of business, profits and overall financial condition could deteriorate. Federal budget cuts have had an adverse impact on our business and could significantly reduce demand for the services we provide. The Budget Control Act of 2011 imposed federal government spending cuts in fiscal year 2013 that have resulted in significant reductions in the funding for infrastructure, defense and other projects. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 also imposes federal spending cutbacks for a two-year period that may impact our work for the Department of Defense (“DOD”) and other federal agencies. Thereafter, in the absence of a budget agreement, sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 could again impose increasing budget cuts over the succeeding years that adversely affect our work for the federal government. In addition, 3,000 of our employees were furloughed during parts of the October 2013 federal government shutdown. Reduction in federal government spending, including as a result of the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013, has decreased demand for our services, resulting in canceled and delayed projects as well as potential projects in our book of business and a number of our employees who work on DOD projects experienced work-week reductions. Further federal budget cuts resulting from sequestration, and the threat of another federal government shutdown could significantly reduce demand for our services, could lead us to reduce our workforce, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 20 We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our book of business, particularly in light of current economic conditions, which could harm our operations and could significantly reduce our expected profits and revenues. We account for all contract awards that may eventually be recognized as revenues or equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures as our “book of business,” which includes backlog, option years and indefinite delivery contracts (“IDCs”). As of January 3, 2014, our book of business was estimated at approximately $22.8 billion, which included $11.3 billion of backlog. Our book of business estimates may not result in realized profits and revenues in any particular period because clients may delay, modify terms or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or issue task orders. This uncertainty is particularly acute in light of current economic conditions, as the risk of contracts in backlog being delayed, adjusted in scope or cancelled is more likely to increase during periods of economic uncertainty and particularly during periods of federal budget cutbacks and sequestration. In addition, our government contracts or subcontracts are subject to renegotiation or termination at the convenience of the applicable U.S. federal, state or local governments, as well as national governments of other countries. Accordingly, if we do not realize a substantial amount of our book of business, our operations could be harmed and our expected profits and revenues could be significantly reduced. As a government contractor, we must comply with various procurement laws and regulations and are subject to regular government audits; failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status, or a loss of our government business, could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. As a government contractor, we enter into many contracts with federal, state and local government clients. For example, revenues from our federal market sector represented 34% of our total revenues for the year ended January 3, 2014. We are affected by and must comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), the Services Contract Act, export controls rules and DOD security regulations, as well as many other laws and regulations. In addition, we must also comply with other government regulations related to employment practices, environmental protection, health and safety, tax, accounting and anti-fraud, as well as many others in order to maintain our government contractor status. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our clients and in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor’s performance under its contracts, a government contractor’s direct and indirect cost structure, and a government contractor’s compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For example, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs and, if the DCAA believes we have accounted for these costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. We can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowances for incurred costs in the future. In addition, government contracts are subject to a variety of other socioeconomic requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting for these contracts. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status, or a loss of our government business, could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. 21 Employee, agent or partner misconduct or failure to comply with anti-bribery and other government laws and regulations could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. Our policies mandate compliance with these regulations and laws, and we take precautions intended to prevent and detect misconduct. However, since our internal controls are subject to inherent limitations, including human error, it is possible that these controls could be intentionally circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions. As a result, we cannot assure that our controls will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees and agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearances, and suspension or debarment from contracting, any or all of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Legal proceedings, investigations and disputes could result in substantial monetary penalties and damages, which could affect us adversely, especially if these penalties and damages exceed or are excluded from existing insurance coverage. We engage in engineering, construction and technical services that can result in substantial injury or damages that may expose us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury and wrongful death claims, employee or labor disputes, professional liability claims, and general commercial disputes involving project cost overruns, indemnification claims and liquidated damages as well as other claims. See Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report for a discussion of some of our legal proceedings. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about environmental and engineering conditions of project sites for our clients. We may be deemed to be responsible for these judgments and recommendations if they are later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities; however, our insurance coverage does not cover all operational risks in the event of a significant incident or catastrophic loss. Generally, our insurance program covers workers’ compensation and employer’s liability, general liability, automobile liability, professional errors and omissions liability, property, marine property and liability, and contractor’s pollution liability (in addition to other policies for specific projects). Our insurance program includes deductibles or self-insured retentions for each covered claim. In addition, our insurance policies contain exclusions and sublimits that insurance providers may use to deny us insurance coverage. Excess liability, contractor’s pollution liability, and professional liability insurance policies provide for coverages on a “claims-made” basis, covering only claims actually made and reported during the policy period currently in effect. Any liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage, or that are covered by our insurance but are subject to a high deductible, or for which we are not insured could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, including our profits and revenues. 22 Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. If any of our third-party insurers fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. Demand for our oil and gas services fluctuates. In May 2012, we completed our acquisition of Flint, significantly increasing our oil and gas services in North America, particularly to the unconventional segments of this market. Demand for our oil and gas services fluctuates, and we depend on our customers’ willingness to make future expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the U.S. and Canada. For example, in 2013, our revenues were adversely affected by unusually severe weather conditions in Western Canada that disrupted activities at project sites, as well as lower natural gas-related drilling activities for our clients caused by continued low prices. Our customers’ willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: · prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; · domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; · available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity; · availability of qualified personnel and lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products; · federal, state and local regulation of oilfield activities; · environmental concerns regarding the methods our customers use to extract natural gas; · the availability of water resources and the cost of disposal and recycling services; and · seasonal limitations on access to work locations. Anticipated future prices for natural gas and crude oil are a primary factor affecting spending and drilling activity by our customers. Lower prices or volatility in prices for oil and natural gas typically decrease spending and drilling activity, which can cause rapid and material declines in demand for our services and in the prices we are able to charge for our services. In addition, should the proposed Keystone XL or other similar proposed pipeline project applications be denied or further delayed by the federal government, then there may be a slowing of spending in the development of the Canadian oil sands. Worldwide political, economic, military and terrorist events, as well as natural disasters and other factors beyond our control contribute to oil and natural gas price levels and volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. 23 We may be subject to substantial liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our services are subject to numerous environmental protection laws and regulations that are complex and stringent. Our business involves the planning, design, program management, construction and construction management, and operations and maintenance at various sites, including but not limited to pollution control systems, nuclear facilities, hazardous waste and Superfund sites, contract mining sites, hydrocarbon production, distribution and transport sites, military bases and other infrastructure-related facilities. We also regularly perform work, including oil field and pipeline construction services in and around sensitive environmental areas, such as rivers, lakes and wetlands. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. federal government entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles, as well as to decontaminate and decommission nuclear facilities. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. We also own and operate several properties in the U.S. and Canada that have been used for the storage and maintenance of equipment and upon which hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed or released. Past business practices at companies that we have acquired may also expose us to future unknown environmental liabilities. Significant fines, penalties and other sanctions may be imposed for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liabilities for remediation of releases of hazardous substances, rendering a person liable for environmental damage, without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability arising out of the conduct of operations or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these acts were performed. For example, there are a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances, such as CERCLA, and comparable state laws, that impose strict, joint and several liabilities for the entire cost of cleanup, without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. In addition, some environmental regulations can impose liability for the entire cleanup upon owners, operators, generators, transporters and other persons arranging for the treatment or disposal of such hazardous substances related to contaminated facilities or project sites. Other federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, as well as other comparable national and state laws. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability. 24 Changes in transportation regulations and other factors may increase our costs and negatively impact our profit margins. We have a large fleet of trucks and other heavy vehicles to transport drilling rigs and provide fluid hauling and other oil and gas services in North America. We are subject to national, state and Canadian provincial regulations including the permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our transport operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in transportation operations, safety, equipment testing and specifications and insurance requirements. The transportation industry is also subject to regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as by requiring changes in fuel emissions limits, vehicle air emissions, the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters. Changes in regulations may increase costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impair equipment productivity, decrease the residual value of these vehicles and increase operating expenses. In addition, our transport business is impacted by weather conditions that can restrict our ability to deliver services. For example, Canadian municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce seasonal road bans each spring that limit the movement of heavy vehicles and equipment. Additionally, some Canadian oil and natural gas-producing areas are only accessible in the winter months when the ground or waterways are frozen; however, these conditions increase susceptibility to accidents. Proposals to increase taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. Also, fluctuating fuel prices may negatively affect our profit margins. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes applicable to our trucking operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our profit margin and overall business. Our failure to conduct due diligence effectively or our inability to integrate acquisitions successfully could impede us from realizing all of the anticipated benefits of recent and future acquisitions, which could severely weaken our results of operations. Historically, we have used acquisitions to help expand our business. If we fail to conduct due diligence on our potential targets effectively, we may, for example, not identify problems at target companies or fail to recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful integration. Our inability to successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions could disrupt our business and impede us from realizing all of the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, severely weakening our business operations and adversely impacting our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of two combining companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among others: · unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; · unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods; · maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; · integrating the business cultures of both companies; · preserving important strategic and customer relationships; · consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; · the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and · integrating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. 25 Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our profits and revenues. Revenues from our federal market sector represented 34% of our total revenues for the year ended January 3, 2014. Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The federal government has relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as IDCs, that generally require those contractors that have previously been awarded the IDC to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. In addition, we believe that there has been an increase in the award of federal contracts based on a low-price, technically acceptable criteria emphasizing price over qualitative factors, such as past performance. As a result, pricing pressure may reduce our profit margins on future federal contracts. The increased competition and pricing pressure, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. In addition, the U.S. government has scaled back outsourcing of some types of services in favor of “insourcing” jobs to its employees. Also, the Budget Control Act of 2011 imposed federal spending cuts (a large portion of which is defense-related) in fiscal year 2013 and beyond that have resulted in significant reductions in the funding for infrastructure, defense and other projects. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 also imposes federal spending cutbacks for a two-year period that may impact our work for the DOD and other federal agencies. Thereafter, in the absence of a budget agreement, sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 could again impose increasing budget cuts over the succeeding years that adversely affect our work for the federal government. In addition, the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and the threat of a similar shutdown have intensified economic uncertainty, particularly with respect to federal government spending. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and under-represented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our profits and revenues. Each year, client funding for some of our government contracts may rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing. If adequate public funding is delayed or is not available, then our profits and revenues could decline. Each year, client funding for some of our government contracts may directly or indirectly rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing such as the ARRA, which provides funding for various clients’ state transportation projects. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. In addition, public-supported financing such as state and local municipal bonds, may be only partially raised to support existing infrastructure projects. As a result, a project we are currently working on may be only partially funded and thus additional public funding may be required in order to complete our contract. The Budget Control Act of 2011 imposed federal spending cuts (a large portion of which is defense-related) in fiscal year 2013 and beyond that have resulted in significant reductions in the funding for infrastructure, defense and other projects. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 also imposes federal spending cutbacks for a two-year period that may impact our work for the DOD and other federal agencies. Thereafter, in the absence of a budget agreement, sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 could again impose increasing budget cuts over the succeeding years that adversely affect our work for the federal government. In addition, the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and the threat of a similar shutdown have intensified economic uncertainty, particularly with respect to federal government spending. Similarly, the impact of the economic downturn on state and local governments may make it more difficult for them to fund infrastructure projects. In addition to the state of the economy and competing political priorities, public funding and the timing of payment of these funds may also be influenced by, among other things, curtailments in the use of government contractors, a rise in the cost of raw materials, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If adequate public funding is not available or is delayed, then our profits and revenues could decline. 26 Our government contracts may give government agencies the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate existing contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion, which may result in a decline in our profits and revenues. Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right for government agencies to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts and subcontracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in our profits and revenues. A decline in defense or other federal government spending, or a change in budgetary priorities, could reduce our profits and revenues. Revenues from our federal market sector represented 34% of our total revenues and contracts, of which the DOD and other defense-related clients represented approximately 21% of our total revenues for the year ended January 3, 2014. The Budget Control Act of 2011 imposed federal spending cuts (a large portion of which is defense-related) in fiscal year 2013 and beyond that have resulted in significant reductions in the funding for infrastructure, defense and other projects. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 also imposes federal spending cutbacks for a two-year period that may impact our work for the DOD and other federal agencies. Thereafter, in the absence of a budget agreement, sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 could again impose increasing budget cuts over the succeeding years that adversely affect our work for the federal government. In addition, approximately 3,000 of our employees were furloughed during parts of the October 2013 federal government shutdown. Furthermore, the U.S. federal government shutdown in October 2013 and the threat of a similar shutdown have intensified economic uncertainty, particularly with respect to federal government spending. There has also been an increase in the award of federal contracts based on a low-price, technically acceptable criteria emphasizing price over qualitative factors, such as past performance. As a result, pricing pressure has reduced and may continue to reduce our profit margins on future federal contracts. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related or other federal programs, including foreign military commitments, may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in defense or other federal spending or a change in budgetary priorities could reduce our profits and revenues. 27 If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits will be reduced. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits will be reduced. For example, during the quarter ended September 30, 2011, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization triggered an interim impairment test, which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge for the year ended December 30, 2011. Goodwill may be impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units is less than the carrying value of the respective reporting unit. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other net intangible assets were $4.3 billion as of January 3, 2014. We perform an analysis on our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. There are several instances that may cause us to further test our goodwill for impairment between the annual testing periods including the following: · continued deterioration of market and economic conditions that may adversely impact our ability to meet our projected results; · declines in our stock price caused by continued volatility in the financial markets that may result in increases in our weighted-average cost of capital or other inputs to our goodwill assessment; and · the occurrence of events that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, such as the sale of a significant portion of one or more of our reporting units. We also perform an analysis of our intangible assets to test for impairment whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. The following are examples of such events: · significant adverse changes in the intangible asset’s market value, useful life, or in the business climate that could affect its value; · a current-period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the intangible asset; and · a current expectation that, more likely than not, the intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profits. It is important for us to accurately estimate and control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins and profitability. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus, fixed-price, target-price and time-and-materials. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all of the costs we incur. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we can control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on our contracts. Under target-price contracts, project costs are reimbursable and our fee is established against a target budget that is subject to changes in project circumstances and scope. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. If we are unable to accurately estimate and manage our costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achieving the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the customer defaults on its payment obligations, we may encounter difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. 28 Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may reduce our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), management is required to make estimates and assumptions, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we may recognize revenues over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: · the application of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; · provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; · impairment of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; · valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; · valuation of defined benefit pension plans and other employee benefit plans; · valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may reduce our profits. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our workforce. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: · our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; · our ability to manage attrition; · our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and · our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. If we overutilize our workforce, our employees may become disengaged, which will impact employee attrition. If we underutilize our workforce, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. For example, approximately 3,000 of our employees were furloughed during parts of the October 2013 federal government shutdown. 29 Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our failure to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts could reduce our profits. Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a surety bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability and harm our reputation. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. For example, project execution issues within our Oil & Gas Division primarily occurring during the fourth quarter of 2013 led to a deterioration of project earnings of approximately $47 million in fiscal year 2013. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by our clients, industrial accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial and liquidated damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. Failure to meet performance standards or complete performance on a timely basis could also adversely affect our reputation. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to joint and several liability and other obligations that could reduce our profits and revenues. We often partner with unaffiliated third parties, individually or via a joint venture, to jointly bid on and perform a particular project. For example, for the year ended January 3, 2014, our equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures amounted to $93.6 million. The success of our partnerships and joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of contractual obligations by each member. In addition, when we operate through a joint venture in which we are a minority holder, we have limited control over many project decisions, including decisions related to the joint venture’s internal controls, which may not be subject to the same internal control procedures that we employ. If these unaffiliated third parties do not fulfill their contract obligations, the partnerships or joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver their contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may have to provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services and could be jointly and severally liable for the other party’s actions. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits and revenues or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. 30 Our dependence on third-party subcontractors and equipment and material providers could reduce our profits or result in project losses. We rely on third-party subcontractors and equipment and material providers. For example, we procure heavy equipment and construction materials as needed when performing large construction and contract mining projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment and materials at reasonable costs or if the amount we are required to pay exceeds our estimates, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials are needed. If we experience delays and/or defaults in client payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we may be unable to recover all working capital or equity investments. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we may commit resources to a client’s projects before receiving payments to cover our expenditures. Sometimes, we incur and record expenditures for a client project before receiving any payment to cover our expenses. In addition, we may make equity investments in majority or minority controlled large-scale client projects and other long-term capital projects before the project completes operational status or completes its project financing. If a client delays or defaults in making its payments on a project, it could have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows, and we could incur losses, including losses in our working capital or equity investments. Our failure to adequately recover on claims brought by us against project owners for additional contract costs could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. We have brought claims against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed-price contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to clients under fixed-price contracts. These bonds indemnify the client should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. We have bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significantly higher costs. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new fixed-price contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Our project sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Failure to maintain safe work sites and equipment could result in environmental disasters, employee deaths or injuries, reduced profitability, the loss of projects or clients and possible exposure to litigation. Our project sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. For example, our Oil & Gas Division provides oilfield services on project sites that could result in uncontrolled flows of oil, gas, or well fluids, fires, spills and explosions. On some project sites, we may be responsible for safety and, accordingly, we have an obligation to implement effective safety procedures. If we fail to implement these procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, we may suffer the loss of or injury to our employees, as well as expose ourselves to possible litigation. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards and equipment could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in environmental, defense, or infrastructure industry laws could directly or indirectly reduce the demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Some of our services are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the environmental, defense or infrastructure industries. Proposed climate change and greenhouse gas regulations, if adopted, could impact the services we provide to our clients, including services related to fossil fuel and industrial projects. Relaxation or repeal of laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the environmental, defense or infrastructure industries could result in a decline in demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. If we do not have adequate indemnification for our services related to nuclear materials, it could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We provide services to the DOE relating to its nuclear weapons facilities and the nuclear energy industry in the ongoing maintenance and modification, as well as the decontamination and decommissioning, of its nuclear energy plants. Indemnification provisions under the Price-Anderson Act (“PAA”) available to nuclear energy plant operators and DOE contractors, do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a radioactive materials cleanup contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If the PAA’s indemnification protection does not apply to our services or if our exposure occurs outside the U.S., our business and financial condition could be adversely affected either by our client’s refusal to retain us, by our inability to obtain commercially adequate insurance and indemnification, or by potentially significant monetary damages we may incur. If our reports, opinions, or judgments are not in compliance with professional standards and other regulations, we could be subject to monetary damages and penalties. We issue reports, opinions, and judgments to clients based on our professional engineering expertise, as well as our other professional credentials. Our reports, opinions, and judgments may need to comply with professional standards, licensing requirements, securities regulations and other laws and rules governing the performance of professional services in the jurisdiction where the services are performed. In addition, we could be liable to third parties who use or rely upon our reports, opinions, and judgments even if we are not contractually bound to those third parties. For example, if we deliver an inaccurate report or one that is not in compliance with the relevant standards, and that report is made available to a third party, we could be subject to third-party liability, resulting in monetary damages and penalties. 32 The accuracy and timeliness of our financial reports may be impacted or the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted if we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial statements. If we are unable to effectively remediate this material weakness or we are otherwise unable to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control as required pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it could result in another material misstatement of our financial statements that would require a restatement, and investor confidence in the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reports may be impacted or the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. Our overall market share and profits will decline if we are unable to compete successfully in our industry. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. For example, according to the publication Engineering News-Record, based on voluntarily reported information, the top ten U.S. engineering design firms accounted for approximately only 43% of the total top 500 U.S. design firm revenues in 2012. The top 20 U.S. contractors accounted for approximately 49% of the top 400 U.S. contractors’ total revenues in 2012, as reported by the Engineering News-Record. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of some of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share, revenues and profits will decline. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As a professional and technical services company, we are labor intensive, and, therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand the number of key employees is an important factor in determining our future success. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. We may occasionally enter into contracts before we have hired or retained appropriate staffing for that project. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. If we are unable to retain executives and other key personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources to identify, hire and integrate new employees. In addition, the failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. 33 We may be required to contribute additional cash to meet any underfunded benefit obligations associated with retirement and post-retirement benefit plans we manage or multiemployer pension plans in which we participate. We have various employee benefit plan obligations that require us to make contributions to satisfy, over time, our underfunded benefit obligations, which are generally determined by calculating the projected benefit obligations minus the fair value of plan assets. For example, as of January 3, 2014, our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans were projected to be underfunded by $309.5 million. See Note 14, “Employee Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” to our “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included under Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional disclosure. This amount does not include any potential obligations we may owe under various third-party multiemployer plans. In the future, our benefit plan obligations may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan asset performance and other factors. If we are required to contribute a significant amount of the deficit for underfunded benefit plans, our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. A multiemployer pension plan is typically established under a collective bargaining agreement with a union to cover the union-represented workers of various unrelated companies. Our collective bargaining agreements with unions typically require us to contribute to various multiemployer pension plans; however, we do not control or manage these plans. For the year ended January 3, 2014, we contributed $49.7 million to multiemployer pension plans. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, an employer who contributes to a multiemployer pension plan, absent an applicable exemption, may also be liable, upon termination or withdrawal from the plan, for its proportionate share of the multiemployer pension plan’s unfunded vested benefit. If we terminate or withdraw from a multiemployer plan, absent an applicable exemption (such as for some plans in the building and construction industry), we could be required to contribute a significant amount of cash to fund the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested benefit, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results; however, since we do not control the multiemployer plans, we are unable to estimate any potential contributions that could be required. Our outstanding indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and financial condition. As of January 3, 2014, the outstanding balance of the term loan under our senior credit facility (“2011 Credit Facility”), as amended, was $605.0 million. In addition, we issued $1.0 billion of 3.85% Senior Notes and 5.00% Senior Notes (collectively the “Senior Notes”) in connection with our acquisition of Flint. We had no outstanding balance under our revolving line of credit as of January 3, 2014. This level of debt might: · increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; · adversely affect our ability to obtain surety bonds; · affect our credit rating; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate initiatives; and · limit our ability to apply proceeds from an asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. We may not be able to generate or borrow enough cash to service our indebtedness, which could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash from operations to service our indebtedness in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. Our debt obligations limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict our use of the proceeds from any such sale. If we default on our debt obligations, our lenders or bondholders could require immediate repayment of our entire outstanding debt. If our lenders require immediate repayment on the entire principal amount, we will not be able to repay them in full, and our inability to meet our debt obligations could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. 34 Because URS Corporation, the parent company, is a holding company, we may not be able to service our debt if our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us. Our parent company has no direct operations and no significant assets other than investments in the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our business operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for payments and dividends to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Although there are currently no material legal restrictions on our operating subsidiaries’ ability to distribute assets to us, legal restrictions, including governmental regulations and contractual obligations, could restrict or impair our operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us in the future. Legal restrictions, including tax regulations and other contractual obligations could restrict or impair our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions or loans to enable us to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt at maturity. Restrictive covenants and other restrictions in our credit and debt arrangements may restrict our ability to pursue business strategies. Our 2011 Credit Facility, Senior Notes, and our other outstanding indebtedness include covenants and restrictions potentially limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · declare or pay dividends to our stockholders; · repurchase or redeem our stock; · repay indebtedness that is junior to our 2011 Credit Facility; · make investments; · create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; and · sell or exchange assets. Our 2011 Credit Facility also requires that we maintain various financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. The covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. 35 Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could significantly reduce our profits and revenues or subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. As a multinational company, we derived approximately 26% of our revenues from international operations for the year ended January 3, 2014. International business is subject to a variety of potential risks, including: · lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; · greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; · foreign currency exchange volatility; · uncertain and changing tax rules, regulations and rates; · logistical and communication challenges; · potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices; · changes in labor conditions; · general economic, political and financial conditions in foreign markets; and · exposure to civil or criminal liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act, the anti-boycott rules, trade and export control regulations, as well as other international regulations. International risks and violations of international regulations may significantly reduce our profits and revenues and subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, suspensions or disqualification from future U.S. federal procurement contracting. Although we have policies and procedures to monitor legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenues attributed to our international operations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. In addition, an organization that “fails to prevent bribery” by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented “adequate procedures” to prevent bribery. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot ensure that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with domestic and international export laws. To the extent we export technical services, data and products outside of the U.S., we are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines, the denial of export privileges and suspension or debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 36 Our international operations may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, some of our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity, acts of terrorism, or public health crises. For example, we have employees working in high security risk countries located in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. As a result, we risk loss of or injury to our employees and may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We develop, install and maintain IT systems for ourselves, as well as for various customers. Any breach of security, disruption, or unexpected data or vendor loss could result in business interruptions, remediation costs, legal claims and significant damage to our reputation. We develop, install and maintain IT systems for ourselves, as well as for customers. For example, our June 2011 acquisition of Apptis Holdings, Inc. (“Apptis”) significantly increased our network management, software engineering, and information technology infrastructure design services to the DOD and other federal agencies. Client contracts for the performance of IT services, as well as various privacy and securities laws, require us to manage and protect sensitive and confidential information from disclosure. We also need to protect our own internal trade secrets and other business confidential information from disclosure. Regardless of the countermeasures we may establish, we may be subject to network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Any breach of security, disruption or unexpected data loss could result in business interruptions, remediation costs, legal claims and significant damage to our reputation. We also rely on third-party internal and outsourced software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. For example, we rely on one software vendor’s products to process a majority of our total revenues. We also depend on our software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense, as well as disrupting the management of our business operations. Force majeure events, including disasters and terrorists’ actions, have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact our business, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure or extraordinary events beyond the control of the contracting parties, such as natural and man-made disasters, as well as terrorist actions, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. In 2013, our revenues were adversely affected by unusually severe weather conditions in Western Canada that disrupted activities at project sites. Also, in 2012, Superstorm Sandy caused severe floods on the East Coast, closing several offices and interrupting a number of active client projects. In addition, during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, a number of employees lost their lives and many client records were destroyed when our office at the World Trade Center was destroyed. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after such extraordinary events unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure events, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 37 Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of January 3, 2014, approximately 28.5% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefit expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address the threat of union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature of the threat or the type and duration of any work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secrets, confidentiality policies and other contractual arrangements to protect much of our intellectual property. Trade secrets are generally difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as those relating to advance notice of certain stockholder proposals and nominations, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. Our stock price could become more volatile and stockholders’ investments could lose value. In addition to the macroeconomic factors that have recently affected the prices of many securities generally, all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public markets regarding new services or potential problems with the performance of services by us or our competitors or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. Continued volatility in the financial markets could also cause declines in our stock price, which could trigger an impairment of the goodwill of our individual reporting units that could be material to our consolidated financial statements. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements’ attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 38 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 