Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks comprise all the material risks of which the Company is aware of; however, these risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes are immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business or financial performance. The following risks could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition, future results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s profitability would be adversely affected if its merchandise selections do not match guest preferences. The retail industry is subject to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to identify merchandise trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. The Company cannot give assurance that its merchandise selections will accurately reflect the preferences of its guests at any given time. In addition, any decline in the popularity or quality of any of its key brands could adversely affect its business. Furthermore, the products the Company sells often require long lead times to order and must appeal to consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and often change rapidly. Consequently, the Company must stay abreast of changing lifestyle and consumer trends and anticipate trends and fashions that will appeal to its guests. If the Company miscalculates the market for its merchandise or the purchasing preferences of its guests, its business and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any of its vendors and if the Company is unable to purchase suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, it may be unable to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to its guests and its sales may be harmed. Third-party vendors manufacture virtually all of the products that the Company offers. In fiscal 2007, the Company purchased its merchandise from approximately 1,000 vendors. Many of the Company’s key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition among retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. In addition, nearly all of the brands of its top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and some of its top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. Moreover, the Company typically buys products from its vendors on a purchase order basis. The Company has no long-term purchase contracts with any of its vendors and, therefore, has no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to the Company or discontinue selling to the Company at any time. In fiscal 2007, products supplied by its 25 largest vendors represented approximately 43% of its purchases, with its top three vendors supplying approximately 13% and its largest single vendor supplying approximately 7% of its purchases for the year. If the Company’s relationships with its vendors are disrupted, it might not be able to acquire the merchandise the Company requires in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to it. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise would have a negative effect on the Company’s business and operating results because it would be missing products from its merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements were made, resulting in deferred or lost guest sales. Delays in receipt of merchandise in connection with either the manufacturing or shipment of such merchandise could affect the Company’s performance. Virtually all of the Company’s merchandise is delivered to it by its vendors as finished goods and is manufactured in numerous locations. The Company’s vendors rely on third-party carriers to deliver merchandise to its distribution facilities. In addition, the Company’s success depends on its ability to efficiently source and distribute merchandise to its retail stores and online guests. Events such as labor disputes, natural disasters, availability of raw materials, vendor financial liquidity, general conditions in the credit markets, including increased challenges faced by vendors seeking to factor or insure their receivables from their retail customers, inclement 13 weather, work stoppages or boycotts affecting the manufacturing or transportation sectors could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to the Company and could adversely affect its results of operations. Upon the loss of one or more of its vendors, the Company may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if available, may be more expensive or of a different or inferior quality from the ones the Company currently sells. In addition, a significant portion of the Company’s merchandise is currently sourced by it or by its domestic suppliers from foreign vendors. As a result, events resulting in the disruption of trade from other countries or the imposition of additional regulations relating to duties upon imports could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of its merchandise or increase its costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Examples of such events include: · political unrest, terrorist activities, war or other hostilities; · strikes and labor problems; · economic upheaval; · import duties and quotas; and · loss or change in “Most Favored Nation” status of the United States with a particular foreign country. An increase in the cost to manufacture, or a disruption in shipment to the Company of, foreign-sourced products could decrease its sales and profitability. The Company’s future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if its advertising and marketing programs are not effective in generating sufficient levels of customer awareness and traffic. The Company relies heavily on print advertising, including direct mail, to promote new store openings, to increase consumer awareness of its product offerings and pricing and to drive store traffic. In addition, the Company relies and will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising. The Company’s future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of its advertising and marketing programs. In order for its advertising and marketing programs to be successful, it must: · effectively manage advertising and marketing costs in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on its marketing investment; and · convert customer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases. The Company’s planned advertising and marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparable store sales or generate sufficient levels of product awareness. The Company may not be able to manage its advertising and marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. There are a limited number of companies capable of distributing the Company’s direct mail advertising at the volume levels it requires. If any of these companies cease operations, or if their expenses (e.g., postage, printing and paper costs) increase substantially, then it is likely that the Company’s advertising expenses will increase, which will have a negative effect on its business and operating results. 14 Weak economic conditions may significantly impact discretionary consumer spending and reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Most of the products that the Company sells are not consumer necessities. Purchases of the Company’s merchandise are largely dependent upon discretionary spending by its guests. A number of external economic factors could affect purchases by its guests of the type of merchandise it offers, including: · disposable income or consumer confidence in future economic conditions; · general economic and business conditions; and · increased interest rates or consumer debt levels. Decreases in consumer confidence and consumer spending could adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations. Reduced consumer spending may also require increased markdowns and increased promotional expenses, which would adversely impact its results of operations. Competitive factors could reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. The U.S. retail home furnishings market is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. The Company competes with many different types of retailers, including among others department stores, mass merchandisers and discounters, specialty retail stores, home improvement centers, warehouse clubs and other retailers. Some of the Company’s competitors sell many of the same products and brands that it sells. The competitive challenges facing the Company include: · anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; · increasing customer awareness and traffic to its stores; · variety and fashion of the products it offers; · maintaining favorable brand recognition and achieving customer perception of value; · effectively marketing and competitively pricing its products to its target guests; and · competing with entities that have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company does. Competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need to reduce the Company’s prices or increase its spending and could result in a decrease in its sales and profitability and require a change in its operating strategies. Attrition among the Company’s buyers or key sales associates could adversely affect its financial performance and its growth. The Company’s success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of its buyers and key sales associates. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs generally is subject to numerous factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, the wages and benefits it pays, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If the Company were to lose buyers or key sales associates and not promptly fill their positions with comparably qualified individuals, its ability to benefit from long-standing relationships with key vendors or to provide relationship-based guest service may suffer. The Company cannot give assurance that it will not suffer significant attrition among its current buyers or key sales associates. The loss of these individuals could adversely affect its business. 15 The Company may not be successful in opening and operating new stores profitably or making its recently opened stores profitable. Although at a decreased rate as compared to prior years, the Company plans to open a number of new stores as part of its growth strategy. There are many risks inherent in its store expansion strategy, and the Company cannot give assurance that it will be able to achieve its expansion goals. The Company’s ability to grow its store base and operate its new and recently opened stores profitably will be affected by many factors, including: · risks inherent in constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner, including obtaining necessary permits and zoning approvals; · integrating the new store into its distribution network; · its ability to maintain financing on commercially reasonable terms; · its ability to identify and secure favorable sites for its new stores in well-trafficked areas and to negotiate satisfactory rent and other lease terms; · the competition for favorable store sites; · the presence of other complementary retail outlets at the locations where the Company opens its new stores; · the proximity of its competitors’ stores; · the impact on sales at its existing stores if the Company locates new stores in the same market; · its ability to invest in and expand its distribution, information technology, management and logistics infrastructure to support a continually increasing store base; · its ability to attract, train and retain good and experienced store managers and store personnel for its new stores; and · acceptance of its new stores in markets where the Company has limited or no existing presence. The Company intends to open additional stores in new markets, as well as in existing markets, in fiscal years 2008, 2009 and beyond. The new markets the Company enters may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets, which may cause the Company’s stores in these new markets to be less successful than stores in its existing markets. Where the Company adds stores into its existing markets, it may not be able to attract sufficient new customers to these new stores and, in addition, these new stores may have the effect of reducing sales from the Company’s existing stores in those markets, which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company cannot give assurance that its new or recently opened stores will meet its internal financial operating targets or that it will be able to operate its new or recently opened stores profitably. The Company also cannot give assurance that the operating results of its new or recently built stores will be comparable to the operating results of its mature existing stores. A disruption in the operation of the Company’s distribution centers would impact its ability to deliver merchandise to its stores, which could adversely impact its sales and its results of operations. The Company’s inventory is generally shipped by its suppliers to one of its three distribution centers, which are located in Shepherdsville, Kentucky; Swedesboro, New Jersey and Greensboro, North Carolina. At its distribution centers, the merchandise is processed, sorted and shipped to its stores. Events such as fire or other catastrophic events, any malfunction or disruption of its centralized information systems or shipping problems may result in delays or disruptions in the timely distribution of merchandise to its stores, which could adversely impact 16 the Company’s sales and its results of operations. Additionally, increases in variable expenses such as fuel costs associated with its distribution operations may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. The Company’s business is subject to substantial seasonal variations. Historically, the Company has realized a significant portion of its net sales for the year during the third and fourth quarters, with a majority of net sales realized in the fourth quarter. The Company’s quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, holiday spending patterns and general economic conditions. The Company believes this is the typical pattern associated with its segment of the retail industry, and the Company expects this pattern will continue in the future. In anticipation of its peak selling season, the Company incurs substantial additional costs, including additional inventory, payroll and advertising costs. If for any reason the Company’s sales during the fourth quarter of any year were significantly below expectations, its results of operations for that full year would be materially adversely affected. A problem with the Company’s management information systems could impact its flow of product and information and adversely affect its operating productivity and results of operations. The Company relies heavily upon its existing management information systems in operating and monitoring all aspects of its business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment and its financial systems. The bulk of the Company’s management information systems are centrally located at its headquarters, with offsite backup at other locations. Any extended disruption in the operation of the Company’s management information systems could have an adverse effect on its operating productivity and results of operations. Furthermore, to keep pace with changing technology, the Company must continuously provide for the design and implementation of new information technology systems as well as enhancements of its existing systems. Any failure to adequately maintain and update the information technology systems supporting the Company’s sales operations or inventory control could prevent it from processing and delivering merchandise, which could adversely affect its business. The Company’s business can be affected by extreme or unseasonable weather conditions. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company’s stores are located could adversely affect its business. For example, heavy snowfall, rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for the Company’s guests to travel to its stores and thereby reduce its sales and profitability. The Company’s business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm weather temperatures during the winter seasons could render a portion of the Company’s inventory incompatible with those conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions would adversely affect the Company’s business. Acts of terrorism could adversely affect the Company’s business. The economic downturn that followed the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a material adverse effect on its business. Any further acts of terrorism or other future conflict may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, cause a downturn in the economy generally, cause consumer spending or shopping center traffic to decline or reduce the desire of its guests to make discretionary purchases. Any of the foregoing factors could negatively impact the Company’s sales revenue, particularly in the case of any terrorist attack targeting retail space, such as a shopping center. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, could negatively impact the Company’s business by interfering with its ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Any future inability to obtain merchandise from its foreign manufacturers or to substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect its business. 17 The Company is subject to numerous regulations that could affect its operations. The Company is subject to customs, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances, which regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although the Company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without its knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the Company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect its business. If the Company is unable to enforce its intellectual property rights, or if it is accused of infringing on a third party’s intellectual property rights, its profitability may be adversely affected. The Company and its subsidiaries currently own its trademarks and service marks, including the “Linens ’n Things” and “LNT” marks. The Company’s trademarks and service marks are registered with both the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the Canadian Intellectual Property Office. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, the Company is unable to predict the effect that any future foreign or domestic intellectual property legislation or regulation may have on its existing or future business. The loss or reduction of any of the Company’s significant proprietary rights could have an adverse effect on its business. Additionally, third parties may assert claims against the Company alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of their trademarks, copyrights or patents (including with respect to alleged proprietary designs) or other proprietary rights, whether or not the claims have merit. Claims like these may be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the Company being required to cease using the trademark, copyright or patent, design or other rights and selling the allegedly infringing products or to acquire licenses to continue using such intellectual property. This might have an adverse affect on the Company’s sales or business operations and cause it to incur significant litigation costs and expenses. If the Company significantly overestimates its sales, its profitability may be adversely affected. The Company makes decisions regarding the purchase of its merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold, generally six months to one year. If the Company’s sales during any season, particularly a peak season, are significantly lower than it expects for any reason, the Company may not be able to adjust its expenditures for inventory and other expenses in a timely fashion and may be left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. If that occurs, the Company may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s margins and operating income. At the same time, if the Company fails to purchase a sufficient quantity of merchandise or if its vendors do not have the capacity to handle its new purchase commitments, it may not have an adequate supply of products to meet guest demand. This may cause the Company to lose sales or adversely affect its reputation. Changes in its credit card arrangements, applicable regulations and consumer credit patterns could adversely impact the Company’s ability to facilitate the provision of consumer credit to its guests and adversely affect its business. The Company maintains a proprietary credit card program through which credit is extended to guests under the “Linens ’n Things” name. Changes in the Company’s proprietary credit card arrangements that adversely impact its ability to facilitate the provision of consumer credit may adversely affect its performance. Credit card operations are subject to numerous federal and state laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of credit accounts and limitations on the maximum amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider. Any effect of these regulations or change in the regulation of credit arrangements that would materially limit the availability of credit to the Company’s guest base could adversely affect its business. In addition, changes in credit card use, payment patterns and default rates may result 18 from general conditions in the credit markets and a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that the Company cannot control or predict with certainty. Failure to maintain competitive terms under the Company’s loyalty programs could adversely affect its business. As part of its strategy, the Company intends to formalize and maintain loyalty programs that are designed to cultivate long-term relationships with its customers and enhance the quality of service the Company provides to its customers. The Company must constantly monitor and update the terms of its loyalty programs so that it continues to meet the demands and needs of its customers and remains competitive with loyalty programs offered by its competitors. The Company’s failure to provide quality service and competitive loyalty programs to its customers could adversely affect its business. If the Company is unable to renew or replace its store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if any of its current leases are terminated prior to the expiration of their stated term and it cannot find suitable alternate locations, its growth and profitability could be harmed. The Company leases all of its store locations. The Company’s current leases expire at various dates through 2029 subject, in many cases, to renewal options for periods ranging from five to 20 years in total. The Company’s ability to renew any expired lease or, if such lease cannot be renewed, its ability to lease a suitable alternate location, and its ability to enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms will depend on many factors which are not within the Company’s control, such as conditions in the local real estate market, competition for desirable properties and its relationships with current and prospective landlords. If the Company is unable to renew existing leases or lease suitable alternate locations, or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, its growth and its profitability may be significantly harmed. Restrictions contained in some of the Company’s leases relating to change of control of the Company may make any change of control more difficult or impair the Company’s ability to retain such leases in the event of a change of control. Some of the Company’s leases contain, and leases related to new stores may contain, various restrictions relating to a change of control of the Company. In such cases, a change of control of the Company without the consent of the landlord may result in a violation of the terms of such lease, thereby exposing it to potential damages or lease termination. This, in turn, could harm the Company’s growth and profitability. The presence of such provisions may also make any change of control in the future more difficult. The Company has previously identified certain issues relating to its internal controls and procedures, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on its business. At the end of fiscal 2006, the Company determined that its control procedures did not include adequate review over the completeness and accuracy of the income tax accounts to ensure compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company out-sourced the preparation of the income tax provision to a third party and did not apply a thorough review to detect misstatements. This deficiency resulted in material errors in the Company’s preliminary income tax provision in the 2006 consolidated financial statements. The Company corrected the provision for income taxes and related balances prior to the issuance of the financial statements. Accordingly, management determined that this condition constituted a material weakness. A material weakness is a deficiency (within the meaning of paragraph A7 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standard No. 5), or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although the Company has taken certain actions to address this issue, if it is unable to identify and remedy all such issues promptly and effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Maintaining effective control over financial reporting is necessary for the Company to produce 19 reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If the Company’s management or its independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude again in the future that its internal control over financial reporting was ineffective, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information. The Company is indirectly owned and controlled by the Sponsors, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with creditors. The Company is indirectly owned and controlled by the Sponsors, and the Sponsors have the ability to elect all of the members of its board of directors and thereby control its policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of its common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on its common stock, the incurrence of debt by the Company, amendments to its certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. The interests of the Sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of noteholders. For example, if the Company encounters financial difficulties or is unable to pay its indebtedness as it matures, the interests of its equity holders might conflict with the interests of noteholders. In addition, the Company’s equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to noteholders. Furthermore, the Sponsors may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with the Company. One or more of the Sponsors also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to the Company’s business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to the Company. So long as the Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the Company’s combined voting power, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control the Company’s decisions. Risks Related to the Company’s Substantial Debt The Company’s substantial leverage may impair its financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the Notes. The Company has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have important consequences to investors, including: · making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to the Notes; · increasing the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for it to react quickly to changing conditions; · limiting the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; · requiring a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations for the payment of interest on its indebtedness and reducing the Company’s ability to use its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · exposing the Company to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of the Company’s borrowings will be at variable rates of interest, which could result in a higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; · limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business, and the industry in which it operates; and · placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have less indebtedness. 20 Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company and its subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with its substantial leverage. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing its asset-based revolving credit facility permits the Company and its subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including $700.0 million of borrowings under the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility, which is not subject to any financial maintenance covenants and ranks equally with the Notes. If new indebtedness is added to the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could intensify. Covenant restrictions under the Company’s indebtedness may limit its ability to operate its business. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility do, and its future indebtedness agreements may, contain covenants that may restrict the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The Company’s indenture and its asset-based revolving credit facility restrict, among other things, its ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to: · incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; · issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; · repurchase capital stock; · make other restricted payments including, without limitation, paying dividends and making investments; · create liens; · redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to the Notes; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; · enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; · enter into mergers or consolidations; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · enter into sale/leaseback transactions. In addition, the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility contains certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default but no financial maintenance covenants. Events beyond the Company’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may result in a breach of any of these covenants and result in a default under the Company’s indenture and its asset-based revolving credit facility. If an event of default under its asset-based revolving credit facility occurs, the lenders could terminate all commitments to lend and elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the Company was unable to pay such amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. All obligations under the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of the assets of the borrowers including: (1) a first-priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable, cash, securities and other general intangibles; and (2) a second-priority security interest in equipment, intellectual property rights and related general intangibles and all of the capital stock of Linens ’n Things, Inc. and the capital stock of certain subsidiaries. Should the lenders proceed against the collateral pledged to them, the Company cannot give assurance that it would have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the Notes. As a result, an investor may receive less than the full amount that the investor would be otherwise entitled to receive on the Notes. 21 The Company will require a significant amount of cash, and its ability to generate sufficient cash depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond its control. The Company’s ability to make payments on and refinance its indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures depends on its ability to generate adequate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond its control. For example, the Company’s need to stock substantial inventory could increase its working capital needs. Also, current conditions in the credit markets generally and those relating to the retail sector specifically, including the ability of vendors to factor or insure their receivables from their retail customers, could result in reduced cash flow or increased challenges in obtaining additional financing or refinancing. The Company cannot give assurance that its business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at current levels or that its cash needs will not increase. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its indebtedness and meet its other needs, it may have to refinance all or a portion of its existing indebtedness, obtain additional financing, reduce expenditures that it deems necessary to its business or sell assets. The Company cannot give assurance that any refinancing of this kind would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained or could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and on its ability to meet its obligations to an investor under the Notes. Variable rate indebtedness subjects the Company to interest rate risk, which could cause its debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of the Company’s borrowings, primarily borrowings under its asset-based revolving credit facility and the Notes, are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose the Company to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, the Company’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income would decrease. Borrowings under the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the higher of (1) the base rate in effect on such day and (2) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% or (b) a LIBOR rate, with respect to any Eurodollar borrowing, determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing adjusted for certain additional costs, in each case plus an applicable margin. The initial applicable margin for borrowings under the revolving commitment is 0.25% with respect to alternate base rate borrowings and 1.50% with respect to LIBOR borrowings. The applicable margin with respect to the Tranche B commitment (consisting of per annum rate margins) is 2.75% in the case of Eurodollar borrowings and, in the event the adjusted LIBOR rate is not available, 1.25% in the case of alternate base rate borrowings. The applicable margin for borrowings under the asset-based revolving credit facility is subject to adjustment based on its excess availability. As of December 29, 2007, such margins remained at the intial levels established. The applicable fixed margin with respect to the Notes is a percentage per annum equal to 5.625%. Assuming all revolving loans are fully drawn, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $3.4 million change in annual interest expense on the Company’s asset-based revolving credit facility and the Notes. Pursuant to the indenture governing the Notes, the Company is required to enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, or other forms of derivative transactions, to reduce interest rate volatility. In July 2006 the Company entered into two derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate volatility through January 15, 2009; however, beyond this date, the Company may not be able to successfully enter into interest rate swaps, or other forms of derivative transactions, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 22 