Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are significant factors known to the Company that could materially harm its business, financial condition or operating results or could cause its actual results to differ materially from its anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statement made in this report. The risks described are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management, or that management currently deems to be immaterial, also may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any of these risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition and operating results could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. The Company has a history of losses and negative cash flow and cannot offer any assurances that it will ever achieve profitability. The Company has not been profitable until this year, has an accumulated deficit of $48.5 million as of December 31, 2013, and has not generated positive cash flows from operations. To bridge the gap between revenues and operating and capital needs, the Company has been dependent on a variety of financing sources, including the issuance of equity securities and convertible notes, and revolving lines of credit. The Company cannot predict whether it will achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than anticipated, or if operating expenses exceed the Company’s expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Due to a recent and significant decrease in competition for Esterified Estrogen with Methyltestosterone tablets (“EEMT”), which the Company cannot be certain will continue, the Company’s revenue and operating income has increased dramatically since the third quarter of 2013. If the Company experienced increased competition for the product, it could lose market share, be forced to lower prices, or both, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company's sales of EEMT, which are sold without an approved NDA or ANDA, accounted for approximately 33% of net revenues, but only approximately 24% of cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2013. Currently, the Company faces no significant competition for its EEMT product because, in the third quarter of 2013, a significant competitor stopped producing EEMT. This has led to a material increase in the Company’s market share for the product and enabled the Company to significantly increase the prices it charges for the product. As a result of the Company’s price increases, the market size for the product has also increased significantly, which could in turn increase the likelihood of the prior competitor re-entering the market. If the prior competitor or any third party is able to successfully produce, market and distribute a product competitive with EEMT, the Company's sales of EEMT could decrease, potentially materially, with a corresponding reduction in revenues, which would have a material, adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. In addition, as described below, the Company sells EEMT without an approved NDA or ANDA and can provide no assurances that the FDA will not require the Company to seek approval for the product or withdraw it from the market. If the FDA required the Company obtain an approved NDA or ANDA in order to sell EEMT, the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows and stock price would be materially and adversely impacted. The costs of and time involved in obtaining an approved NDA or ANDA would be significant and the Company may determine not to pursue such approvals. Unless the Company were successful in increasing sales of other products to replace any revenue lost from the sale of its EEMT product, whether due to competition, FDA actions or otherwise, its business and stock price would be materially harmed, potentially for the long term. Because of the increase in revenue related to sales of this product, the percentage of the Company’s net revenues related to EEMT increased to 33% from 9% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 15 Certain of the Company’s generic products are marketed without approved New Drug Applications (“NDAs”) or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”) and the Company can offer no assurances that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) will not require the Company to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Two of the Company’s products, EEMT and Opium Tincture, are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, net revenues for EEMT were 33% and 9% of total revenue, respectively and net revenues from Opium Tincture were 16% and 20% of total revenue, respectively. The FDA's policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products appears in the FDA's September 2011 Compliance Policy Guide Sec. 440.100 titled "Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs." Under this policy, the FDA has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products. The FDA evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those with potential safety risks or that lack evidence of effectiveness. While the Company believes that, so long as it complies with applicable manufacturing and labeling standards, the FDA will not take action against it under the current enforcement policy, it can offer no assurances that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual product or group of products. In October 2012, the Company received a telephone call requesting a meeting with the FDA representatives from the Minneapolis district of the FDA to discuss continued manufacturing and distribution of Opium Tincture, which is an unapproved product. That meeting was held on October 25, 2012 by conference telephone call and included FDA representatives from the Office of Compliance at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Counsel to the Company sent a letter to the FDA on November 9, 2012 in support of the Company’s position. Although the FDA confirmed receipt of this letter, the Company has received no further response from the FDA. If, as a result of such discussions or otherwise, the FDA were to make a determination that the Company could not continue to sell Opium Tincture as an unapproved product, the Company would be required to seek FDA approval for such product or withdraw such product from the market. If the Company determined to withdraw the product from the market, the Company’s net revenues for generic pharmaceutical products would decline materially, and if the Company decided to seek FDA approval, it would face increased expenses and might need to suspend sales of the product until such approval is obtained, and there are no assurances that the Company would receive such approval. In addition, the Company manufactures a group of products on behalf of a contract manufacturing customer and receives royalties on the customer’s sales of products, which are marketed by that customer without an FDA-approved NDA. If the FDA took enforcement action against such customer, the customer may be required to seek FDA approval for the group of products or withdraw them from the market, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s contract manufacturing and royalty revenues. The Company’s contract manufacturing revenues from this group of unapproved products for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 6.5% and 6.8% of total revenues, respectively. The Company’s royalties on the net sales of these unapproved products for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 1.1% and 1.4% of total revenues, respectively. The Company is entirely dependent on periodic approval by the Drug Enforcement Administration for the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient needed to make Opium Tincture and inability to obtain such approval would reduce or eliminate revenues from the sale of Opium Tincture. In addition, the Company is subject to strict regulation by the Drug Enforcement Administration and is subject to sanctions if it is unable to comply with related regulatory requirements. The Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as opium, pursuant to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act (“CSA”). The CSA and DEA regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security and distribution. Recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored and distributed. Companies handling controlled substances also are required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. 16 In addition, each year, the Company must submit a request to the DEA for a quota to purchase the amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient needed to manufacture Opium Tincture, one of its major products. Without an approved quota from DEA, the Company would not be able to purchase this ingredient from its supplier. As a result, the Company is entirely dependent upon the DEA to approve, on an annual basis, a quota of active pharmaceutical ingredient that is sufficiently large to support the Company’s plans for the continued manufacture of Opium Tincture at commercial levels. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for active pharmaceutical ingredients. The Company’s ability to manufacture and distribute drug products is dependent, in part, upon ingredients and components supplied by others, including entities based outside the United States. The Company purchased approximately 37% and 63% of total costs of goods sold from three suppliers during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Any disruption in the supply of these ingredients or components or any problems in their quality could materially affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and distribute drug product and could result in legal liabilities that could materially affect the Company’s ability to realize profits or otherwise harm the Company’s business, financial, and operating results. As described above, virtually all contracts for the supply of pharmaceutical products by the Company to customers contain "failure to supply" clauses. The ability to source sufficient quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”) for manufacturing is therefore critical to the Company. The Company sources the raw materials for its products, including API from both domestic and international suppliers. Generally, only a single source of API is qualified for use in each product due to the costs and time required to validate a second source of supply. Changes in API suppliers must usually be approved through a Prior Approval Supplement by the FDA. As the API typically comprises the majority of a product's manufactured cost, and qualifying an alternative is costly and time-consuming, API suppliers must be selected carefully based on quality, reliability of supply and long-term financial stability. Imported API is subject to inspection by the FDA and FDA can refuse to permit the importation of API for use in products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. The Company is entirely dependent on imported API to make EEMT. If the FDA detained or refused to allow the importation of such API, the Company’s revenues from the sales of EEMT would be reduced or eliminated and the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company sources certain of the API for its drug products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, from international suppliers. From time to time, due to FDA inspections, the Company has experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of certain of such imported API, including EEMT. Any prolonged disruption in the supply of such imported API could materially affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and distribute its drug products, such as EEMT, reduce or eliminate the Company’s revenues from sales of EEMT, and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and operating results. The Company’s anticipated revenue growth and profitability, if achieved, is dependent upon the Company’s ability to develop, license, or acquire, and commercialize new products on a timely basis in relation to its competitors' product introductions, and to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products. The Company’s failure to do so successfully could impair its growth strategy and plans and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company’s future revenues and profitability are dependent upon its ability to successfully develop, license or acquire, and commercialize, pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. Product development is inherently risky and time-consuming. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to the supply of product meeting specifications and terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The Company may not be successful in commercializing products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect its business, financial position and results of operations. 17 Before any new prescription drug product can be marketed in the United States, marketing authorization approval is required by the FDA. The process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. The Company may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis for branded or generic products that it may develop, license or acquire. Moreover, if the Company obtains regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, which in turn could restrict its potential market for the drug. Also, for products pending approval, the Company may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory. In the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, the Company could be exposed to the risk of any such inventory becoming obsolete. The timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect the Company’s product introduction plans, business, financial position and results of operations. The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the FDA granting simultaneous final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces a generic firm to face immediate competition when it introduces a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. As a result, the Company could be unable to grow or maintain market share with respect to generic pharmaceutical products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to market that product profitably and on its business, financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products in a timely manner, its product introduction plans, business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The FDA regulates and monitors all promotion and advertising of prescription drugs after approval. All promotion must be consistent with the conditions of approval and submitted to the agency. Failure to adhere to FDA promotional requirements can result in enforcement letters, warning letters, changes to existing promotional material, and corrective notices to healthcare professionals. Promotion of a prescription drug for uses not approved by the FDA can have serious consequences and result in lawsuits by private parties, state governments and the federal government, significant civil and criminal penalties, and compliance agreements that require the company to change current practices and prevent unlawful activity in the future. The Company faces vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of its products. If the Company is unable to successfully compete, such competition could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations and cash flows. The generic pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. The Company faces intense competition from U.S. and foreign manufacturers, many of whom are significantly larger than the Company. Its competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to the Company’s for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: · greater financial resources; · proprietary processes or delivery systems; · larger research and development and marketing staffs; · larger production capabilities; · more products; or · more experience in developing new drugs. 18 Any significant competitor of the Company, due to one or more of these and other factors, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company's approved products may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that allow the Company to achieve profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company seeks to develop, license or acquire products that it can commercialize at levels of market acceptance that would allow the Company to recoup the costs of development and commercialization, grow market share, and achieve profitability. Even if the Company is able to obtain regulatory approvals for its pharmaceutical products, if the Company fails to accurately predict demand for such products, its business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Levels of market acceptance for products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: · the availability of alternative products from the Company’s competitors; · the price of the Company's products relative to that of the Company's competitors; · the effectiveness of the Company’s marketing relative to that of the Company’s competitors; · the timing of the Company's market entry; · the ability to market the Company's products effectively to the retail level; and · the acceptance of the Company's products by government and private formularies. Some of these factors are not within the Company's control and, if any arises, the Company’s profitability, business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Although the Company’s male testosterone gel is approved by the FDA, the Company is uncertain as to when Teva will begin to market and sell the male testosterone gel and thus when or if the Company would begin to receive royalties from such sales in light of Teva’s settlement agreement with AbbVie Inc. The Company’s male testosterone gel was developed initially by the Company, and then licensed by the Company to Teva for late stage clinical development. Teva submitted an NDA, which was approved by the FDA in February 2012. Subsequent to Teva submitting the NDA, in April 2011, AbbVie Inc., a marketer of a testosterone gel for men, filed a complaint against Teva alleging patent infringement with respect to the male testosterone gel. The Teva/AbbVie patent infringement litigation was settled in December 2011. In light of the settlement agreement, the Company is uncertain as to when or if Teva will begin to market and sell its male testosterone gel and thus when or if the Company would begin to receive royalties from such sales. In addition, the intangible asset related to the Teva license was valued at $10.9 million in the purchase accounting for the Merger. If Teva does not begin to market or sell its male testosterone gel, the value of the intangible asset could be at risk of impairment, which could result in an impairment charge that could have a material negative impact on the Company’s financial results. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt the Company's business and harm its financial condition and operating results. The Company's growth will depend, in part, on its continued ability to develop, commercialize and expand its drug products, including in response to changing regulatory and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, the Company may determine to accelerate its growth through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates or products can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and the Company may not be able to successfully complete or successfully execute strategies for identified acquisitions. The risks faced in connection with acquisitions include: 19 · diversion of management time and focus from operating the Company's business to addressing acquisition and/or product integration challenges; · coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions; · retention of key employees from the acquired company; · integration of the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; · the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; · liability for activities of the acquired company and/or products before the acquisition, including patent infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; · unanticipated write-offs or charges; and · litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company or product, including claims from product users, former stockholders or other third parties. In any acquisition that the Company may undertake, its failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions and investments could cause the Company to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause it to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm its business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of the Company's equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm the Company’s financial condition or operating results. The Company began its own product development program in 2011 and expects to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. Failure to successfully introduce products into the market could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company conducts research and development primarily to enable it to manufacture and market approved pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable regulations. As the Company seeks to develop and develops new products, its research expenses will increase, potentially significantly. Research and development is expensive and time-consuming. The Company’s research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the FDA. Also, after the Company submits a marketing authorization application for a generic product, the FDA may change standards and/or request that the Company conduct additional studies and, as a result, the Company may incur total research and development costs to develop a particular product in excess of what it anticipated. Finally, the Company cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if it is successful in commercialization. To the extent that the Company spends significant resources on research and development efforts and is not able to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, its business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company relies on third parties to assist it in its clinical studies. If these third parties do not perform as required contractually or expected, the Company’s clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product being tested in such studies. The Company relies on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist it in its clinical studies. The Company is responsible for confirming that its studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of its clinical studies is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires the Company to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical studies, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical study participants are adequately protected. The Company’s reliance on these third parties does not relieve it of these responsibilities. If the third parties assisting the Company with its clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDA's good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to the Company’s protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, the Company may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and its clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product being tested in such studies. In addition, if a third party fails to perform as agreed, the Company’s ability to collect damages may be limited contractually. 20 The Company does not own or license any material patents associated with its products, and its ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation is limited. Generally, the branded pharmaceutical business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. The Company does not own or license any material patents associated with its products and therefore does not enjoy the same level of intellectual property protection with respect to such products as would a pharmaceutical manufacturer that markets a patented product. The Company has a limited ability to protect and control trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, all of which are unpatented. Others independently may develop similar or better proprietary information and techniques and disclose them publicly. Also, others may gain access to the Company’s trade secrets, and the Company may not be able to meaningfully protect its rights to its unpatented trade secrets. In addition, confidentiality agreements and other measures may not provide meaningful protection for the Company’s trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Failure to protect and control such trade secrets, know-how and innovation could harm the value of the Company’s trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation. The use of legal, regulatory and legislative strategies by competitors, both branded and generic, including "authorized generics" and citizen's petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed legislation, may increase the Company’s costs associated with the introduction or marketing of the Company’s generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction and/or could reduce significantly the Company’s profit potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue legal, regulatory, and/or legislative strategies to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: · entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; · launching a generic version of their own branded product at the same time generic competition initially enters the market; · filing citizen's petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of the Company’s product approvals; · seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or meet other approval requirements; · initiating legislative and regulatory efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals; · filing suits for patent infringement that may delay regulatory approval of generic products; 21 · introducing "next-generation" products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic product for which the Company seeks regulatory approval; · obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of branded drugs in pediatric populations or by other potential methods; · persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of branded name drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the branded name company to obtain new patented products serving as substitutes for the products withdrawn; and · seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. If the Company cannot compete with such strategies, the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially negatively impacted. Companies with greater resources than the Company could lobby Congress and other regulators for additional regulations that would benefit their situations but would negatively impact the Company. The Company is at the early stages of growth and currently does not engage in lobbying activities. In the United States, some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (the “Hatch-Waxman Act”) that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an NDA is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by the full amount of time spent in clinical trials rather than by only one half of the time that is currently permitted. If proposals like these were to become effective, the Company’s entry into the market and its ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company faces significant uncertainty with respect to the litigation brought against it and other manufacturers of metoclopramide and cannot provide assurances that the outcome of the matter will not have an adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows from operations. In addition, the Company may be exposed to other product liability claims in the future. All manufacturers of the drug Reglan® and its generic equivalent metoclopramide, including the Company, are facing allegations from plaintiffs in various states, including California, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, claiming bodily injuries as a result of ingestion of metoclopramide or its brand name, Reglan®, prior to the FDA's February 2009 Black Box warning requirement. In August 2012, the Company was dismissed with prejudice from all New Jersey cases. Management considers the Company’s exposure to this litigation to be limited due to several factors: (1) the only generic metoclopramide manufactured by the Company prior to the implementation of the FDA's warning requirement was an oral solution introduced after May 28, 2008; (2) the Company’s market share for the oral solution was a very small portion of the overall metoclopramide market; and (3) once the Company received a request for change of labeling from the FDA, it submitted its proposed changes within 30 days, and such changes were subsequently approved by the FDA. At the present time, management is unable to assess the likely outcome of the cases in the remaining states. The Company’s insurance company has assumed the defense of this matter. In addition, the Company’s insurance company renewed the Company’s product liability insurance on September 1, 2012 and 2013 with absolute exclusions for claims related to Reglan® and metoclopramide. Management cannot provide assurances that the outcome of these matters will not have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Furthermore, like all pharmaceutical manufacturers, the Company in the future may be exposed to other product liability claims, which could harm its business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 22 The Company’s management does not have significant experience in addressing the extensive regulations that the Company must comply with as a public company and is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, the Company is required to comply with significant legal, accounting and other requirements that ANIP Acquisition Company did not face as a private company and as such, has incurred significant regulatory compliance-related expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including those related to corporate governance practices. The Company’s management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Certain members of the Company’s management do not have significant experience in addressing these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased the company’s legal and financial compliance costs relative to those of previous years and make some activities more time consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that the Company maintain effective internal control for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, the Company must perform system and process evaluation and testing of its internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. The Company’s compliance with these requirements has required that it incur substantial accounting and related expenses and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if the Company is not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is unable to assert that its internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or identifies deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the Company’s financial reports, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline and the Company could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. The Company has very limited staffing and is dependent upon key employees, the loss of some of which could adversely affect its operations. Competition for talent is intense; if the Company cannot attract and retain personnel, the growth and success of the business could be adversely affected. The Company’s success is dependent upon the efforts of a relatively small management team and staff. The Company has no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including clinical, regulatory, strategic planning and finance. The Company has employment arrangements in place with its executive and other officers, but none of these executive and other officers is bound legally to remain employed with the Company for any specific term. The Company does not have key person life insurance policies covering its executive and other officers or any of its other employees. If key individuals leave the Company, its business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. The population in northern Minnesota, where the Company’s manufacturing resources are located, is small, and as a result, there are a limited number qualified personnel available in all functional areas, which could make it difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of the Company’s business. The continuing trend toward consolidation of certain customer groups could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of the Company’s products, and increased fees charged by customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation among wholesale distributors, chain drug stores, and group purchasing organizations has resulted in a smaller number of companies, each controlling a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels. For example, the Company's net revenues are concentrated among three customers representing 27%, 18% and 10% of net revenues, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, accounts receivable from these three customers was approximately 68% of the Company's net accounts receivable. Drug wholesalers and retain pharmacy chains, which represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products, have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in declines in sales volume for the Company if a customer is consolidated into another company that purchases products from a competitor. In addition, the consolidation of drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains could result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing the Company's business and enabling those groups to charge increased fees to the Company. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to extract price discounts on the Company's products. The result of these developments may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 23 The Company’s operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. The Company’s principal operations are conducted in northern Minnesota. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could disrupt the Company’s operations or those of its strategic partners, contractors and vendors. Even though the Company believes it carries commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and its contractors may carry liability insurance that protect the Company in certain events, the Company might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under its and its contractors’ insurance policies or for which it or its contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s operations and financial results, and could delay its efforts to identify and execute any strategic opportunities. The Company has two manufacturing facilities producing a substantial portion of its products. Production at any one of these facilities could be interrupted, which could cause the Company to fail to deliver sufficient product to customers on a timely basis and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s manufacturing capacity is based in two facilities. While these facilities are sufficient for the Company’s current needs, the facilities are highly specialized and any damage to or need for replacement of all or any significant function of the Company’s facilities could be very costly and time-consuming and could impair or prohibit production and shipping. A significant disruption at any one of the facilities, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, adverse quality or compliance observation, vandalism, storm or other environmental damage, or other events could impair the Company’s ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and, among other consequences, could subject the Company to claims from customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Virtually all contracts for the supply of pharmaceutical products by the Company to its customers contain "failure to supply" clauses. Under these clauses, if the Company is unable to supply the requested quantity of product within a certain period after receipt of a customer's purchase order, the customer is entitled to procure a substitute product elsewhere and the Company must reimburse its customer for the difference between the Company’s contract price and the price the customer was forced to pay to procure the substitute product. This difference can be substantial because of the much higher spot price at which the customer must cover its requirements, and can be far in excess of the revenue that the Company would otherwise have received on the sale of its own product. The ability to produce and ship a sufficient quantity of product is therefore critical to the Company. Failure to deliver products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s ability to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the future is subject to substantial limitations. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“the Code”), if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50 percent change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. Further, if the historic business of BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“BioSante”) is not treated as being continued by the Company for the two-year period beginning on the date of the Merger (referred to as the “continuity of business requirement”), the pre-transaction net operating loss carryforward deductions become substantially reduced or unavailable for use by the surviving corporation in the transaction. In 2009, an “ownership change” occurred with respect to BioSante, and the Merger resulted in another “ownership change” of the Company. Although the Company does not currently believe that ANIP Acquisition Company experienced an ownership change as a result of the Merger, due to the complexity of certain aspects of the applicable regulations, there is no assurance that the IRS will not successfully challenge this determination. Accordingly, the Company’s ability to utilize BioSante’s (and, if successfully challenged by the IRS, ANIP Acquisition Company’s) net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be substantially limited. These limitations, in turn, could result in increased future tax payments for the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. 24 Under Section 384 of the Code, available net operating loss carryovers of BioSante or ANIP Acquisition Company may not be available to offset certain gains arising after the Merger from assets held by the other corporation at the effective time of the Merger. This limitation will apply to the extent that the gain is attributable to an unrealized built-in-gain in the assets of BioSante or ANIP Acquisition Company existing at June 19, 2013, the date of the Merger. To the extent that any such gains are recognized in the five year period after the Merger upon the disposition of any such assets, the net operating loss carryovers of the other corporation will not be available to offset such gains (but the net operating loss carryovers of the corporation that owned such assets will not be limited by Section 384 although they may be subject to other limitations under Section 382 as described above). Management uses a variety of estimates, judgments, and assumptions in preparing the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Estimates, judgments, and assumptions are inherently subject to change, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the period. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions, and any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. In the consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports filed with the SEC, estimates, judgments, and assumptions are used for, but not limited to, revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, accruals for chargebacks, returns and other allowances, allowance for inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, valuation of intangible assets, allowances for contingencies and litigation, deferred tax valuation allowance, and the depreciable lives of fixed assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, and results of operations. The Company’s policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods. Based on industry practice, the Company, like other generic drug manufacturers, has agreements with customers allowing chargebacks, product returns, administrative fees, and other rebates. Under many of these arrangements, the Company may match lower prices offered to customers by competitors. If the Company chooses to lowers its prices, it generally gives the customer a credit on the products that the customer is holding in inventory, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like its competitors, the Company also gives credits for chargebacks to wholesalers that have contracts with the Company for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesaler pays and the price that the wholesaler’s end-customer pays for a product. Although the Company establishes reserves based on prior experience and management’s best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, the Company cannot ensure that its reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed management’s estimates. 25 The Company may become subject to federal and state false claims litigation brought by private individuals and the government. The Company is subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal False Claims Act (“FFCA”), also known as Qui Tam, imposes civil liability and criminal fines on individuals or entities that knowingly submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the FFCA and other similar laws may result in criminal fines, imprisonment, and civil penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from federally funded health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The FFCA also allows private individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the government against an individual or entity for violations of the FFCA. These suits, also known as Qui Tam actions, may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. These suits have increased significantly in recent years because the FFCA allows an individual to share in any amounts paid to the federal government as a result of a successful Qui Tam action. If the Company’s past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or other applicable governmental regulations, it may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of its operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment, or restructuring of operations could adversely affect the Company. Actions brought against the Company for violations of these laws, even if successfully defended, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company’s reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. The Company’s calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes. In addition, because the Company’s processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any determination by governmental agencies that the Company has failed to comply with its reporting and payment obligations could subject it to penalties and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States, and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on health care reform in the future. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, “the ACA”), were signed into law in March 2010. While the ACA may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for the Company's products and may otherwise increase drug coverage, they also include provisions such as, among others, the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee, the requirement that manufacturers provide discounts to Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs. The cost-containment measures that government programs and healthcare insurers are instituting both as a result of general cost pressure in the industry and healthcare reforms contained in the ACA may prevent the Company from maintaining prices for its products that are sufficient for the Company to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm its business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, to the extent that the Company's approved products are marketed outside of the United States, foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent the Company from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for the Company to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm its business, financial condition and operating results. 26 The Company is unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. The ACA and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce the Company’s revenues or increase its costs could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause the Company to incur significant additional costs. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal authorities, including principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the DEA, and state governmental authorities. Federal and certain state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of the Company’s products. Noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements can have a broad range of consequences, including warning letters, fines, seizure of products, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and distribution, refusal to approve NDAs or other applications or revocation of approvals previously granted, withdrawal of product from marketing, injunction, withdrawal of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct business, disqualification from supply contracts with the government, civil penalties, debarment and criminal prosecution. The Company’s research, product development and manufacturing activities have involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, and the Company may incur significant costs as a result of the need to comply with numerous laws and regulations. The Company is subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”), the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of the Company’s products, materials used to develop and manufacture such products, and resulting waste products. For example, certain of the Company’s products, including EEMT, must be manufactured in a fully contained environment due to their potency and/or toxicity, and compliance with related OSHA requirements is costly. The Company cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts, from these materials. In the event of an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed its resources. The Company may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. The Company is also subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to, federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle-blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to its business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects. If third-party payers deny coverage, substitute another company’s generic product for the Company’s product, or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, the Company may not be able to market its products effectively or it may be required to offer its products at prices lower than anticipated. Third-party payers increasingly are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage, choose to provide coverage for a competitor’s bioequivalent product rather than the Company’s product, or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, or foreign equivalent, or other government regulators, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Prices also could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, the Company may not be able to market its products effectively or it may be required to offer its products at prices lower than anticipated. 27 The Company relies significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm management’s ability to operate the business effectively. The Company relies significantly on its information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to effectively manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, to manufacture and ship products to customers and to invoice them in a timely manner. Any failure, accidents, inadequacy, or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents, could harm management’s ability to operate the business effectively. Management’s ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, to manufacture and ship products to customers and invoice them timely depends significantly on the Company’s general ledger, its contracted electronic data interface system, and other information systems. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cybersecurity incidents resulting in the failure of the Company’s general ledger, its contracted electronic data interface system, and other information systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security or other unauthorized access of these systems, may affect management’s ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, and result in delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of operations. A breach in security, unauthorized access resulting in misappropriation, theft, or sabotage with respect to proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. After completion of the June 19, 2013 merger of BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“BioSante”) and ANIP Acquisition Company (the “Merger”), the Company possesses not only all of the assets but also all of the liabilities of both BioSante and ANIP Acquisition Company. Discovery of previously undisclosed or unknown liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions involve risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems. After completion of the Merger, the Company possesses not only all of the assets, but also all of the liabilities of both BioSante and ANIP Acquisition Company. Although BioSante conducted a due diligence investigation of ANIP Acquisition Company and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, and ANIP Acquisition Company conducted a due diligence investigation of BioSante and its known and potential liabilities and obligations, it is possible that undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems may arise after completion of the merger, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, operating results and financial condition. A substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock is held by former stockholders of ANIP Acquisition Company and management, including by persons and entities that are not subject to legal restrictions on the resale of Company common stock. As part of the Merger, these shares were subject to a lock-up period, which expired six months after the Merger. If a substantial number of these shares are sold, in particular over a short period of time, it could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Sales by significant stockholders of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of such shares and could materially impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. The Company is unable to predict what effect, if any, substantial market sales of securities held by significant stockholders, directors or officers of the Company, or the availability of these securities for future sale could have on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s principal stockholders, directors and executive officers own a significant percentage of the Company’s stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over the Company’s affairs. The Company’s current principal stockholders, directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 52.0% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock entitled to vote as of December 31, 2013. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from stockholders generally and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of the Company, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company, and might ultimately affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. 28 Raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. Raising additional funds by issuing new debt financing may restrict the Company’s operations. The Company may seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or equity-linked securities. If the Company were to raise funds through the issuance of additional equity or equity-linked securities, the percentage ownership of its stockholders could be diluted, potentially significantly, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of its existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance of any equity securities could be at a discount to the then-prevailing market price. If the Company requires new debt financing, there is no assurance that such a transaction will be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. In addition, the Company could be subject to onerous repayment terms or covenants that restrict its ability to operate its business and make distributions to its stockholders. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of the Company’s assets, as well as prohibitions on the ability of the Company to create liens, pay dividends, redeem its stock or make investments. There is no assurance that any equity or debt financing transaction will be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile, and an investment in the Company’s common stock could decline in value. The price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated in the past, has increased significantly since the completion of the Merger, and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization, pharmaceutical companies, including the Company, from time-to- time experience significant price fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In particular, the market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control and that may not be related to its operating performance, including, but not limited to: · general stock market and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, even if not directly related to the Company or its business; · any inability to manufacture EEMT, whether due to FDA determinations or otherwise; · disruptions in the supply of API and other ingredients used in the Company’s current and planned products; · actual or anticipated governmental agency actions, including in particular decisions or actions by the FDA or FDA advisory committee panels with respect to the Company’s current products, products in development, or its competitors’ products; · changes in anticipated or actual timing of the Company’s product development programs; · competition in the Company’s industry; · the Company entering into new strategic partnering arrangements or termination of existing strategic partnering arrangements; · public concern as to the safety or efficacy of the Company’s products; · the Company’s need and ability to obtain additional financing; 29 · changes in laws or regulations applicable to the Company’s products or business; · period-to-period fluctuations in the Company’s financial results; · changes in key management; · sales of shares of the Company's common stock by the Company or its stockholders; · failure of securities analysts to initiate and maintain coverage of the Company and, with respect to any analyst coverage, the Company's failure to meet analyst estimates or the expectations of investors; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of new products or services; · the public’s reaction to the Company's press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; · rumors and market speculation involving the Company or other companies in the Company’s business; · actual or anticipated changes in the Company's operating results or fluctuations in its operating results; · actual or anticipated developments in the Company's business, its competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; · litigation involving the Company, its industry or both, or investigations by regulators into the Company's operations or those of its competitors; · announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or products by the Company or its competitors; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to the Company's business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; and · slow or negative growth of the Company's products or markets. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report or in subsequent reports the Company files with or submits to the SEC from time to time could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. The Company currently is subject to such litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm the Company’s business and financial condition, as well as the market price of the Company’s common stock. 30 If shareholder approval is received to increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”), it could increase dilution for shareholders and the Company could incur significant expense in accounting for stock-based compensation granted under the 2008 Plan. On July 12, 2013, the Company’s Board of Directors approved grants of stock options to employees, including certain executive officers, under the 2008 Plan, subject to shareholder approval of an increase in the total shares available for issuance under the 2008 Plan, which the Company intends to seek at its next annual meeting in 2014. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had grants of 325 thousand common stock options outstanding pending shareholder approval. These grants were approved by the board on July 12, 2013, but expense related to these stock options will begin to be recognized only upon shareholder approval. While stock compensation expense is not material for the year ended December 31, 2013, if shareholders approve the increase in the total shares available for issuance under the 2008 Plan and the previously-approved stock options are issued, the stock compensation expense would be significantly greater and changes to the estimates involved in the calculation of stock compensation expense could have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Based on stock price information at December 31, 2013, if the increase in total shares available for issuance under the 2008 Plan had been approved on December 31, 2013 and these options had been issued as of December 31, 2013, there would have been approximately $5.0 million of expense related to these options, to be expensed over the remainder of the four year service period. However, because the stock compensation expense will be calculated based on the stock price as of the date of approval by the shareholders, the actual expense could be materially higher or lower, depending on the Company’s stock price as of that date. Furthermore, if additional grants are made under the 2008 Plan, the Company could incur significant expense related to stock-based compensation in future periods, and shareholders could find their holdings diluted by the increase in shares. Continuing studies of the Company’s products could result in a negative result, which could require discontinuance of product marketing, or other risk management programs. Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products, including those produced by the Company. In some cases, studies have resulted, and in the future may result, in the discontinuance of product marketing or other risk management programs such as the need for a patient registry. These situations, should they occur with respect to any products of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability, business, financial position and results of operations. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could affect adversely the market for the Company’s hormone products. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women's Health Initiative (“WHI”) study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products may exceed the benefits from the use of those products among postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) released data from its WHI study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin among postmenopausal women. Also, in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom also was halted. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment. Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Some reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms declined as a result of these published studies. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse effects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to the Company’s products, also could affect adversely the Company’s business. 31 Provisions in the Company’s charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to its stockholders. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred shares that could be issued by the Company’s board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals and director nominations that may prevent or hinder any attempt by the Company’s stockholders to bring business to be considered by its stockholders at a meeting or replace its board of directors; and · as a Delaware corporation, the Company is also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of the Company's outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of its outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. Any provision of the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for the Company's stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of the Company's common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 