Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the Common Stock of Stewardship Financial Corporation involve risk. The following discussion highlights the risks management believes are material for our Corporation, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. To be profitable we must earn more interest from our interest-earning assets than we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Bank. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates can also adversely affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our assets and liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to mitigate and manage credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and approval procedures, monitoring of loan concentrations and periodic independent review of outstanding loans. We cannot be assured that these procedures will reduce credit risk inherent in the business. 6 Table of Contents We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and assets serving as collateral for loan repayments. In determining the size of our allowance for loan loss, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. A continuing economic recession and struggling financial markets have adversely affected our industry and, because of our geographic concentration in northern New Jersey, we could be impacted by adverse changes in local economic conditions. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the nation, the State of New Jersey, and the northern New Jersey area. The nation’s current economic environment and the related struggling financial markets have severely adversely affected the banking industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We believe recovery will continue to be slow and do not believe these difficult economic conditions are likely to improve dramatically in the near term. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, any further significant decline in the real estate market in our primary market area would hurt our business and mean that collateral for our loans would have less value. As a consequence, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate securing the loan would be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition within the financial services industry could adversely affect our profitability. We face strong competition from banks, other financial institutions, money market mutual funds and brokerage firms within the New York metropolitan area. A number of these entities have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition among depository institutions for customer deposits has increased significantly in the current continuing difficult economic situation. If we are unsuccessful in competing effectively, we will lose market share and may suffer a reduction in our margins and suffer adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal and State regulations could restrict our business and increase our costs and non-compliance would result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the FDIC, the FRB and the State of New Jersey. The significant federal and state banking regulations that we are subject to are described herein under “Item 1. Business.” Such regulation and supervision of the activities in which bank and bank holding companies may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall operations. These statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, and interpretations of policies and regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Any such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Due to our nation’s current economic situation and a low level of confidence in the financial markets, new federal and/or state laws and regulations of lending and funding practices and liquidity standards continue to be implemented. Bank regulatory agencies are being very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in bank examinations with respect to bank capital requirements. Any increased government oversight, including the full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, may increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies applicable to our business could result in sanctions against us by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurances that such violations will not occur. 7 Table of Contents A breach of our information systems through a security breach, computer virus or disruption of service or a compliance breach by one of our vendors could negatively affect our reputation and business. We rely heavily upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the Internet for the purpose of data processing, communication and information exchange and to conduct our business and provide our customers with the ability to bank online. Despite the safeguards instituted by management, our systems are susceptible to a breach of security through unauthorized access, phishing schemes, computer viruses and other security problems. In addition, we rely on the service of a variety of third-party vendors to meet our processing needs. If confidential information is compromised, we could be exposed to claims, litigation, financial losses, costs and damages. Such damages could materially affect our earnings. In addition, any failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems and could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. In addition, the negative affect on our reputation could affect our ability to deliver products and services successfully to new and existing customers. The trading volume of our stock remains low which could impact stock prices. The trading history of our Common Stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to decreases due to the volatility of the price of our Common Stock which trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in the other risk factors and the following: ·actual or anticipated fluctuation in operating results; ·press releases, publicity, or announcements; ·changes in expectation of our future financial performance; ·future sales of our Common Stock; and ·other developments affecting us or our competitors. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling Common Stock at or above the current market price. Because of our participation in the Treasury’s Small Business Lending Fund, the Corporation is subject to certain restrictions including limitations on the payment of dividends. The Series B Preferred Shares issued in connection with our participation in the SBLF pay a non-cumulative quarterly dividend in arrears. Such dividends are not cumulative but the Corporation may only declare and pay dividends on its Common Stock (or any other equity securities junior to the Series B Preferred Stock) if it has declared and paid dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares for the current dividend period and, if, after payment of such dividend, the dollar amount of the Corporation’s Tier 1 Capital would be at least 90% of the Tier 1 Capital on the date of entering into the SBLF program, excluding any subsequent net charge-offs and any redemption of the Series B Preferred Shares (the “Tier 1 Dividend Threshold”). The Tier 1 Dividend Threshold is subject to reduction, beginning on the second anniversary of the issuance and ending on the tenth anniversary, by 10% for each 1% increase in QSBL over the baseline level. This restriction on declaring or paying dividends could negatively affect the value of our Common Stock. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends is always subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our Common Stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could further reduce or eliminate our Common Stock dividend in the future. If we are unable to redeem the Series B Preferred Shares issued to the Treasury in connection with our participation in the Treasury’s Small Business Lending Fund and Series B Preferred Shares remain outstanding for more than four and one half years, the cost of the capital received will increase. The Series B Preferred Shares pay a non-cumulative quarterly dividend in arrears. As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the dividend rate can fluctuate from 1% to 5% per annum on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the Series B Preferred Shares are outstanding. In addition, for the eleventh through the first half of the nineteenth dividend periods such dividend rate may vary from 1% to 7%. In the event that we are unable to redeem the Series B Preferred Shares and such shares remain outstanding for more than four and one-half years, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9%. This increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Shares could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. 8 Table of Contents The Series B Preferred Shares issued to the Treasury in connection with our participation in the Treasury’s Small Business Lending Fund reduces our net income available to common shareholders and earnings per share of Common Stock. As discussed elsewhere in the Form 10-K, the Series B Preferred Shares pay non-cumulative dividends at the rate of 1% to 5% per annum during the first ten quarters, based upon changes in the level of our QSBL over the base line level. Such dividend rate may vary from 1% to 5% per annum for the second through tenth dividend periods and from 1% to 7% for the eleventh through the first half of the nineteenth dividend periods, to reflect the amount of change in the Bank’s level of QBSL. The dividend rate for the initial dividend period was 1% and, during 2012, the dividend rate ranged between 1% and 3.39%. In the event that the Series B Preferred Shares remain outstanding for more than four and one-half years, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9%. Such dividends are not cumulative but the Corporation may only declare and pay dividends on our Common Stock (or any other equity securities junior to the Series B Preferred Stock) if it has declared and paid dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares for the current dividend period and will be subject to other restrictions on its ability to repurchase or redeem other securities. These dividends will reduce our net income and earnings per common share. The Series B Preferred Shares ranks senior to the Common Stock and, as such, will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Corporation will be unable to: meet its obligations as they come due; capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise; or pay regular dividends, because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividends to shareholders. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a prolonged economic downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 