D. Risk Factors See the discussion regarding forward-looking statements at page 1. Speculative Nature of the Mining Industry The mining industry is intensely competitive and Richmont Mines competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities. The market price of precious metals and other metals is volatile and cannot be controlled. If revenue from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, the Company may from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, the Company may experience losses and be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its capital projects or existing operations, particularly those operations having operating costs that are flexible to such short- to medium-term curtailment or closure. In addition, the Company would have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on its ability to recover any losses that may be incurred during that period and on its ability to maintain adequate cash reserves. There is no assurance that Richmont Mines' mineral development and exploration activities will be successful. Mining Risks The mining operations of Richmont Mines are subject to the risks normally encountered in the mining business. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, rock bursts, cave-ins, floods, industrial accidents, unanticipated ground and water conditions, underground fires, inclement weather conditions, and other conditions are involved in the drilling and mining of ore. The processing of ore may subject Richmont Mines to liability under environmental legislation including, without limitation, liability resulting from a failure to maintain dams around tailing disposal areas. Richmont Mines may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or 4 other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or for other reasons. Fuel, power and consumables, including diesel, heavy fuel oil, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, which are used in mining operations form a relatively large part of the operating costs of any mining company. The cost of these consumables is linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to the price of oil. Furthermore, the cost of steel, which is used in the manufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, is also a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditure of a mining company. Fluctuations in the price of oil and steel have a significant impact upon operating cost and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects. The Company has no influence over the price of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and other commodities used in its mining activities. High oil and steel prices would have an adverse effect upon the profitability of existing mining operations and the returns anticipated from new mining projects and could even render certain projects non-viable. Shortages of skilled labor, critical spares, consumables and equipment result in production delays and production shortfalls and increases in prices for such items which results in an increase in both operating costs and the capital expenditure to maintain and develop mining operations. Ore Reserve Estimation Risks The ore reserves presented in this Annual Information Form are in large part estimates, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. The grade of ore mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results, which variation may have an adverse impact on production results. In addition, the reliability of estimates of future production might also be affected by mining risks and other factors such as strikes and environmental conditions. Reliance on Estimates of Proven and Probable Reserves There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proven and probable reserves and in projecting future rates of production, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data included in this Annual Report represents only estimates and actual results may vary from such estimates. No assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. The grade of ore mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results, which variation may have an adverse impact on production results. Estimates were calculated in accordance with the National Instrument 43-101 in force in Canada. Proven Mineral Reserves A proven mineral reserve is the economically mineable part of a measured mineral resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified. 5 Probable Mineral Reserves A probable mineral reserve is the economically mineable part of an indicated and, in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource, demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. Depletion of Reserves The life of mineral properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires additional properties containing proven reserves, conducts successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identifies additional zones or reserves, the proven reserves of the Company will decline as they are produced. Future gold production is therefore highly dependent upon the Company's level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Fluctuations in Gold Prices and Currencies (see Item 4.4 "Information on the Company – Gold Marketing and Sales" The profitability of the Company is directly related to the market price of gold. Gold prices fluctuate considerably and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, such as: · Speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; · Changes in the demand for gold as an investment; · Changes in the demand for gold used in jewellery and for industrial uses; · Changes in the supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; · Financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; · The strength of the dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; · Changes in interest rates; · Actual or expected gold sales by central banks and the IMF; · Gold sales by gold producers in forward transactions; · Global and regional political and economic events; and · Costs of gold production in major gold-producing nations, such as South Africa, the United States and Australia. 6 Furthermore, since gold price is established in US dollars, a significant increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar coupled with stable or declining gold prices could adversely affect Richmont Mines' results with respect to the sale of gold. See Item 11 "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk Disclosure." As at December 31, 2005, Richmont Mines had no gold hedging contracts and no future US dollar exchange contracts for the coming year. Exploration and Development Risks Mining exploration and the development of mineral deposits involve significant financial risks which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The exploration process generally begins with the identification and appraisal of mineral prospects. Substantial expenditures may be required in an attempt to establish ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore and to construct mining processing facilities at the site chosen for mining. No assurance can be given that current exploration programs will result in any commercial mining operation. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated to be incurred during such identification and appraisal process of mineral prospects. Operating costs and capital expenditure are determined particularly by the costs of the commodity inputs, including the cost of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, tires and steel, that are consumed in mining activities. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of an extension to an existing mine, or in the development and construction of any new mine. In addition to those discussed above these uncertainties include: · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; · the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities; · the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; · the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the timing of those permits; and · the availability and cost of funds to finance construction and development activities. The costs, timing and complexities of mine development and construction can increase because of the remote location of many mining properties. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production could occur. Finally, operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of fluctuations in the prices of commodities consumed in the construction and operation of mining projects. Accordingly, the 7 Company's future exploration and development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new production, or one or more of these new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or may not be profitable at all. Laws and Regulations The Company's mining operations and exploration activities in the Provinces of Quebec, Ontario and Newfoundland are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, agricultural zoning, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. The Canadian mining industry is subject to federal and provincial environmental protection legislation. This legislation imposes high standards on the mining industry in order to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently emitted into the air or water. Consequently, drilling, refining, extracting and milling are all subject to the restrictions imposed by this legislation. In addition, the construction and commercial operation of a mine typically entail compliance with applicable environmental legislation and review processes, as well as the obtaining of permits, particularly for the use of the land, permits for the use of water, and similar authorizations from various government bodies. Canadian federal, provincial, and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and development, production and marketing of mineral production, as well as environmental and safety matters have generally become more stringent in recent years, often imposing greater liability on a larger number of potentially responsible parties. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with such requirements. There is no assurance that laws and regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all current laws and regulations material to its activities. However, changing government regulations may have an adverse effect on the Company. Competition The gold mining industry is marked by strong competition from major mining companies and independent operators in acquiring properties and leases for the exploration and production of gold. Competition is particularly intense with respect to the acquisition of desirable undeveloped mineral properties. The Company anticipates encountering such competition in connection with any expansion of its activities. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of such undeveloped properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, investigate and acquire interests in such properties, close working relationships with governmental authorities and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop such properties. Many of the Company's competitors have financial resources, staff and facilities substantially greater than those of the Company. In addition, the producing, processing and marketing of gold is affected by a number of factors which are beyond the control of the Company, the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. 8 The principal raw materials and resources necessary for the exploration and production of gold are interests in prospective properties under which reserves may be discovered, equipment to explore for and produce such reserves and knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of operations. The Company must compete for such raw materials and resources with both major mining companies and independent operators. Although the Company believes that its current operating and financial resources are adequate to preclude any significant disruption of its operations in the immediate future, the continued availability of such materials and resources to the Company cannot be assured. 