Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant risk factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have a history of operating losses, expect continuing losses and may never again achieve profitability. We have a history of operating losses. We incurred a net loss of $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and as of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $54.5 million. All of our revenue to date has been derived from upfront and milestone payments earned on licensing and sub-licensing transactions, revenue earned from subcontracts with various parties and royalty revenue generated by our marketing licensee, Nycomed, who commercially launched Elestrin in June 2007. We expect to incur substantial and continuing losses for the foreseeable future as our own product development programs expand and various preclinical and clinical trials commence or continue, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel. The amount of these losses may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors: • the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel, and our other product development efforts; • the timing and cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for our proposed products; • the commercial success and net sales of Elestrin, on which we receive royalties and potentially may receive sales-based milestones; • the timing and cost of obtaining third party reimbursement for our products; and • the progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, joint ventures, licenses and other business combinations or transactions with entities that have businesses or technologies complementary to our business. In order to generate new and significant revenues, we successfully must develop our own proposed products and enter into collaborative agreements with others who successfully can commercialize them. Even if our proposed products and the products we may license or otherwise acquire are introduced commercially, they may never achieve market acceptance and we may not generate additional revenues or achieve profitability in future years. 23 Table of Contents We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations and we may be unable to raise such funds when needed and on acceptable terms. We currently do not have sufficient resources to obtain regulatory approval of our proposed products or to complete the commercialization of any of our proposed products. We expect the Phase III clinical trial program of LibiGel to require significant resources. Therefore, we may need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $30.7 million at December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 18 months, and if we are unable to liquidate our auction rate securities, through at least the next 12 months. However, we may resort to seeking additional financing prior to that time. As an alternative to raising additional financing, we may be able to license LibiGel to a third party who would finance the continued development and if approved, commercialization of LibiGel. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: • the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel, and our other product development efforts; • patient recruitment and enrollment in our current and future clinical trials; • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews of our proposed products; • the commercial success and net sales of Elestrin, on which we receive royalties and potentially may receive sales-based milestones; • the timing and cost of obtaining third party reimbursement for our products; • the progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, joint ventures, licenses and other business combinations or transactions with entities that have businesses or technologies complementary to our business. • our ability to license LibiGel or other products for development and commercialization; • the rate of technological advances; • ongoing determinations of the potential commercial success of our proposed products; • our general and administrative expenses; • the activities of our competitors; and • our opportunities to acquire new products or take advantage of other unanticipated opportunities. We cannot be certain that any financing will be available when needed or will be on terms acceptable to us. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our programs designed to obtain regulatory approval of our proposed products, or restrict us from acquiring new products that we believe may be beneficial to our business. 24 Table of Contents Our proposed products are in the development stages and will likely not be commercially introduced for several years, if at all. Our proposed products are in the development stages and will require further development, preclinical and clinical testing and investment prior to commercialization in the United States and abroad. Other than Elestrin, which was commercially introduced in June 2007 by our marketing licensee, Nycomed, none of our products have been introduced commercially nor do we expect them to be for several years. Some of our products are not in active development. For example, at this time, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal hormone therapy gel product sublicensed to Solvay is not in active development by Solvay, and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. We cannot assure you that any of our proposed products will: • be successfully developed; • prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; • demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or • be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to commercially manufacture or sell any of our future products, or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of our products. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell any of our products in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we must obtain the approval of the FDA for each product or drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our management’s credibility, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity would be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. Even after obtaining regulatory approval, we may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. The FDA may also require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents To obtain regulatory approval to market our products, costly and lengthy pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials are required, and the results of the studies and trials are highly uncertain. As part of the FDA approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense or the expense of current or potential licensees, clinical trials on humans on each of our proposed products. Pre-clinical studies on animals must be conducted on some of our proposed products. We expect the number of pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials that the FDA will require will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular product. We may need to perform multiple pre-clinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin human clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our products. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in pre-clinical studies on animals, the results in humans may be different. After we have conducted pre-clinical studies in animals, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for use on the target human patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. The data obtained from pre-clinical and human clinical testing are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We face the risk that the results of our clinical trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal or human testing. Adverse or inconclusive human clinical results would prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our products. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: • slow patient enrollment; • timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; • longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or safety; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and • lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. Delays in our clinical trials could allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products and thus can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. Although we successfully have completed and reached agreement with the FDA under the Special Protocol Assessment process for our Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trials for LibiGel, we still may not obtain FDA approval of LibiGel within a reasonable period of time or ever, which would harm our business and likely decrease our stock price. We anticipate that LibiGel if approved by the FDA, could be a very successful product. However, LibiGel has not been approved for marketing by the FDA and is still subject to risks associated with its clinical development and obtaining regulatory approval. We believe based on FDA discussions, meetings and agreements, including a Special Protocol Assessment received in January 2008, that two Phase III safety and efficacy trials and one year of LibiGel exposure in a separate safety study with a four-year follow-up post-NDA filing and potentially post-FDA approval are the essential requirements for submission and, if successful, approval by the FDA of an NDA for LibiGel. In January 2008, we announced that we successfully completed and reached agreement with the FDA under the Special Protocol Assessment process for our Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trials for LibiGel in the treatment of FSD, specifically, hypoactive sexual desire disorder. The SPA process and agreement affirms that the FDA agrees that the LibiGel Phase III clinical trial design, clinical endpoints, sample size, planned conduct and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval. Further, it provides assurance that these agreed measures will serve as the 26 Table of Contents basis for regulatory review and the decision by the FDA to approve an NDA for LibiGel. The SPA agreement covers the pivotal Phase III safety and efficacy trials of LibiGel in the treatment of FSD. The SPA agreement, however, is not a guarantee of LibiGel approval by the FDA or approval of any permissible claims about LibiGel. In particular, it is not binding on the FDA if previously unrecognized public health concerns later comes to light, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or effectiveness arise, we fail to comply with the protocol agreed upon, or the FDA’s reliance on data, assumptions or information are determined to be wrong. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed by us or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement. In addition, the data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent FDA regulatory approval. Delays in the completion of these clinical trials, which can result from unforeseen issues, FDA interventions, problems with enrolling patients and other reasons, could significantly delay commercial launch and affect our product development costs. Moreover, results from these clinical studies may not be as favorable as the results we obtained in prior, completed studies. We cannot ensure that, even after extensive clinical trials, regulatory approval will ever be obtained for LibiGel. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could adversely affect the market for hormone therapy products and the trading price of our common stock. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women’s Health Initiative study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products exceed the benefits from the use of those products among healthy postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) released data from its Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by healthy women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin for an average of 5.2 year follow-up among healthy postmenopausal women. Also in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom was also halted. Our hormone therapy products differ from the products used in the Women’s Health Initiative study and the primary products observed in the National Cancer Institute and United Kingdom studies. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment. Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Recent reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. There currently are no studies published comparing the safety of our hormone therapy products against other hormone therapies. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms have declined as a result of these published studies. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse affects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to our products, would also adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents We entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement with Bradley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the marketing of Elestrin in the United States as a result of which we are dependent upon Bradley for the marketing and sale of our Elestrin product. In November 2006, we entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement with Bradley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the marketing of Elestrin in the United States pursuant to which we received an upfront license payment, certain regulatory milestone payments and have the right to receive certain sales-based milestone payments, plus royalties on sales of Elestrin. As a result of this agreement, Elestrin is subject to not only general market acceptance of the product, but also the success of Bradley in marketing and selling the product. Bradley commercially launched Elestrin in June 2007. We recognized $69,353 in royalty revenue from the sales of Elestrin during the year ended December 31, 2007 which represents the gross royalty revenue received from Bradley and not our corresponding obligation to pay Antares a portion of the royalties received. We, therefore, have not received any meaningful royalty revenue from the sale of Elestrin and we do not know when if ever, Bradley’s Elestrin sales will result in significant royalty revenue to us. Effective February 21, 2008, Nycomed US Inc. completed its acquisition of Bradley. As a result, all references to Bradley have been changed to Nycomed in this report. Although we have no reason to believe that the acquisition of Bradley will adversely affect its desire to continue to be our exclusive sublicensee for Elestrin or adversely affect Nycomed’s future sales of Elestrin, no assurance can be provided that the acquisition will not have such an adverse effect. We cannot assure you that Nycomed will remain focused on the commercialization of Elestrin or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreement, especially if Nycomed’s Elestrin sales do not increase significantly. Any breach by Nycomed of its obligations under our agreement or a termination of the agreement could adversely affect the success of Elestrin if we are unable to sublicense the product to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the future commercialization of the product ourselves. We license the technology underlying most of our hormone therapy products and a portion of our CaP technology from third parties and may lose the rights to license them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We license most of the technology underlying our hormone therapy products from Antares Pharma, Inc. and a portion of our CaP technology from the University of California. We may lose our right to license these technologies if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. Although we intend to use our reasonable best efforts to meet these obligations, if we violate or fail to perform any term or covenant of the license agreements or with respect to the University of California’s license agreement within 60 days after written notice from the University of California, the other party to these agreements may terminate these agreements or certain projects contained in these agreements. The termination of these agreements, however, will not relieve us of our obligation to pay any royalty or license fees owed at the time of termination. Our failure to retain the right to license the technology underlying our proposed hormone therapy products or CaP technology could harm our business and future operating results. For example, if we were to enter into an sublicense agreement with a third party under which we agree to sublicense our hormone therapy technology or CaP technology for a license fee, the termination of the main license agreement with Antares Pharma, Inc. or the University of California could either, depending upon the terms of the sublicense agreement, cause us to breach our obligations under the sublicense agreement or give the other party a right to terminate that agreement, thereby causing us to lose future revenue generated by the sublicense fees. 28 Table of Contents We have licensed some of our hormone therapy products to third parties and any breach by these parties of their obligations under these sublicense agreements or a termination of these sublicense agreements by these parties could adversely affect the development and marketing of our licensed products. In addition, these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our proposed products. We have licensed some of our hormone therapy product to third parties, Nycomed, Solvay Pharmaceuticals, B.V., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Pantarhei Bioscience B.V. All of these parties, except for Nycomed, have agreed to be responsible for continued development, regulatory filings and manufacturing and marketing associated with the products. In addition, we may in the future enter into additional similar license agreements. Our products that we have licensed to others are thus subject to not only customary and inevitable uncertainties associated with the drug development process, regulatory approvals and market acceptance of products, but also depend on the respective licensees for timely development, obtaining required regulatory approvals, commercialization and otherwise continued commitment to the products. Our current and future licensees may have different and, sometimes, competing priorities. We cannot assure you that our partners or any future third party to whom we may license our proposed products will remain focused on the development and commercialization of our partnered products or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreements with them, especially since these third parties may also compete with us with respect to some of our proposed products. For example, at this time, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal hormone therapy gel product licensed to Solvay is not in active development by Solvay, and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. As an additional example, in 2005, we were notified that Teva USA had discontinued development of our male testosterone gel, Bio-T-Gel, product and indicated to us a desire to formally terminate the agreement. Although in June 2007, we signed an amendment to the agreement under which we and Teva reinitiated our collaboration on the development of Bio-T-Gel for the U.S. market and Teva withdrew its previous notice of its desire to terminate the agreement and reinitiated funding and development of the product, prior to such time, no third party was developing our Bio-T-Gel. Any future breach of this agreement by Teva or any other breach by our partners or any other third party of their obligations under these agreements or a termination of these agreements by these parties could adversely affect development of the products in these agreements if we are unable to sublicense the proposed products to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the development and future commercialization of the proposed products ourselves. Elestrin, which is FDA approved, and our other proposed products, if they receive FDA approval, may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The commercial success of our FDA-approved product, Elestrin, and our other proposed products, if they receive the required regulatory approvals, is dependent upon market acceptance by physicians and patients. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from competitors; • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors; • the timing of market entry; and • the ability to market our products effectively. 29 Table of Contents Some of these factors are not within our control, especially if we have transferred all of the marketing rights associated with the product, as we have with Elestrin to Nycomed. Elestrin and our proposed products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Because our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us, we may not succeed in developing our proposed products and bringing them to market. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. We cannot assure you that our competitors, some of whom are our development collaborators, will not succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to us, or that these competing technologies and products will not be more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop. Because the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental authorities. For example, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the development of our proposed products and our clinical trials, and if any of our proposed products are approved, the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected and the market value of our common stock could decline. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. 30 Table of Contents Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of other reasons: • We do not know whether our licensor’s patent applications will result in issued patents. • Competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us or may claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore we cannot use our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also have our patents reexamined by demonstrating to the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. • We are engaged in the process of developing proposed products. Even if we receive a patent, it may not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our proposed products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our proposed product. • Enforcing patents is expensive and may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. • We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. It also is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors resulting in a loss of protection. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: • result in costly litigation; • divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; 31 Table of Contents • cause product development delays; • require us to develop non-infringing technology; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry often have been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff. We have employment arrangements in place with both of our two executive officers, but neither of our executive officers is legally bound to remain employed for any specific term. Although we have key man life insurance on our Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen M. Simes, we do not have key man life insurance policies covering our other executive officer or any of our other employees. If key individuals leave BioSante, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and adversely affect our liquidity. At December 31, 2007, we had $15.0 million in short-term investments consisting primarily of auction rate securities. At March 14, 2008, we had approximately $14.0 million invested in auction rate securities. Liquidity for our auction rate securities historically has been provided by an auction process which has allowed us the opportunity to sell the securities at each auction date, and for those securities not sold, resets the applicable interest rate every 28 days. Although auctions have been successful for periods immediately subsequent to December 31, 2007, recently auctions for our auction rate securities have failed which therefore have eliminated our ability to sell these securities through the standard auction process. Currently there is no liquid market for these securities. There is no assurance that future auctions in our auction rate securities will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. In the event that there is a failed auction the indenture governing the security requires the issuer to pay interest at a contractually defined rate which may or may not correspond to market rates for other types of similar short-term instruments. Our securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be subject to the auction process every 28 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer redeems the securities or they mature. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investment in these securities and use the cash proceeds to operate our business in the near term may be limited. Our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investment in these securities may also be limited or non- existent in the near term. All of our investments in auction rate securities are classified as short-term investments in our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. However, these recent developments may result in the classification of some or all of these securities as long-term investments in our future financial statements. 32 Table of Contents All of the underlying assets of our auction rate securities are student loans substantially all of which are backed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Substantially all of our auction rate securities are currently rated AAA, the highest rating available by a rating agency. We currently believe the market values of our auction rate securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to government agency backing of the underlying securities and the investment-grade credit rating of each auction rate security in our portfolio. However, it could take until the final maturity or issuer refinancing of the underlying debt for us to realize the recorded value of our investments in these securities. If the issuers of our auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or redeem or refinance the securities and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments, and may need to sell these securities on a secondary market. Although we believe we will be able to liquidate our investments in these securities without any significant loss, the timing and financial impact of such an outcome is uncertain. Based on our expected cash expenditures, our cash and cash equivalents balance and other potential sources of cash, including our anticipated ability to borrow using these securities as collateral, we do not anticipate that the potential lack of liquidity of these investments in the near term will adversely affect our ability to execute our current business plan. However, no assurance can be provided that our ability to execute our business plan will not be affected by this risk. The price and trading volume of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Historically, the market price and trading volume of our common stock closing price has fluctuated over a wide range. In 2007, our common stock closed in a range from a low of $2.72 to a high of $7.68, and our daily trading volume ranged from 18,500 shares to 928,700 shares. It is likely that the price and trading volume of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization, biopharmaceutical companies, including our company, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In particular, the market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • governmental agency actions, including in particular decisions or actions by the FDA or FDA advisory committee panels with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; • the results of our clinical trials or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by licensors or licensees of our technology; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of or market acceptance of products developed by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • our ability to obtain needed financing; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenues; 33 Table of Contents • loss of key management; • common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; • other potentially negative financial announcements, including delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results, delays in our filings with the SEC or our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; and • general stock, market and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, not directly related to BioSante. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described above or elsewhere in this report or otherwise in reports we file with or submit to the SEC from time to time could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. For example, in December 2004, primarily as a result of the unanimous vote by the FDA’s Reproductive Health Drugs Advisory Committee panel against recommendation for approval of Procter & Gamble’s Intrinsa testosterone patch for hypoactive sexual desire disorder, the price of our common stock decreased over 35 percent in one trading day and over 50 percent over the course of three trading days. In addition, on the day of and first two trading days after the public announcement of FDA advisory panel’s recommendation, the daily trading volume of our common stock went from an average of approximately 166,000 shares per day to an average of over approximately 3 million shares per day for those same three days and then back down to an average of approximately 140,000 shares per day. Our current trading volume is approximately 110,000 shares per day. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. We may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 