Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual future activities and results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in forward-looking statements made by us. These risks and uncertainties include: Our Business may be Adversely Affected by the Current Economic Environment. Our business is in part dependent on technology spending and is impacted by economic conditions. The current global credit crisis and economic environment may materially and adversely affect demand for our products and services. If current conditions in the United States and global economy were to lead to a further decrease in technology spending, or in demand for our research and advisory services, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to a variety of operational risks which could negatively impact our results of operations. We have clients in over 60 countries and approximately 30% of our revenue comes from international sales. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with numerous foreign laws and regulations, differences between U.S. and foreign tax rates and laws, and the difficulty of enforcing client agreements, collecting accounts receivable and protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions. Furthermore, we rely on local independent sales representatives in some international locations. If any of these arrangements are terminated by our representative or us, we may not be able to replace the arrangement on beneficial terms or on a timely basis, or clients of the local sales representative may not want to continue to do business with us or our new representative. A Decline in Renewals for Our Membership-Based Research Services. Our success depends in large part upon retaining (on both a client company and dollar basis) and enriching existing memberships for our research products and services. Our client and dollar retention rate and enrichment rate (see Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Overview) declined in 2008 as compared with 2007. Our client and dollar retention rate increased in 2009 as compared with 2008 however our enrichment rate continued to decline in 2009 as compared to 2008. Future declines in client retention, dollar retention, and enrichment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Ability To Develop and Offer New Products And Services. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to offer new products and services. These new products and services must successfully gain market acceptance by anticipating and identifying changes in client requirements and changes in the technology industry and by addressing specific industry and business organization sectors. The process of internally researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new product or service, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product or service, is risky and costly. We may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, products or services successfully. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to maintain a competitive position in our market and continue to grow our business. Loss of Key Management. Our future success will depend in large part upon the continued services of a number of our key management employees. The loss of any one of them, in particular George F. Colony, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, could adversely affect our business. The Ability To Attract and Retain Qualified Professional Staff. Our future success will depend in large measure upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, research analysts, and experienced sales and marketing personnel. Thus, our future operating results will be largely dependent upon our ability to retain the services of these individuals and to attract additional professionals from a limited pool of qualified candidates. We experience competition in hiring and retaining professionals from developers of Internet and emerging-technology products, other research firms, management consulting firms, print and electronic publishing companies and financial services companies, many of which have substantially greater ability, either through cash or equity, to attract and compensate professionals. If we lose professionals or are unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in the market or grow our business. Failure To Anticipate and Respond To Market Trends. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt our research to meet the changing information needs of our clients. The technology and commerce sectors that we analyze undergo frequent and often dramatic changes. The environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. Any failure to continue to provide insightful and timely analysis of developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on our market position and results of operations. Competition. We compete in the market for research products and services with other independent providers of similar services. We may also face increased competition from Internet-based research firms. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, information-gathering, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our indirect competitors include the internal planning and marketing staffs of our current and prospective clients, as well as other information providers such as electronic and print publishing companies, survey-based general market research firms and general business consulting firms. Our indirect competitors may choose to compete directly against us in the future. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our market, and new competitors could readily seek to compete against us in one or more market segments addressed by our products and services. Increased competition could adversely affect our operating results through pricing pressure and loss of market share. Fluctuations in Our Operating Results. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may affect our stock price. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Trends in technology spending in the marketplace and general economic conditions. • The timing and size of new and renewal memberships for our research services from clients. • The utilization of our advisory services by our clients. • The timing of revenue-generating Events sponsored by us. • The introduction and marketing of new products and services by us and our competitors. • The hiring and training of new analysts and sales personnel. 9 • Changes in demand for our research and advisory services. As a result, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. Factors such as announcements of new products, services, offices, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us, our competitors, or in the technologies services industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by movements in prices of stocks in general. We may realize losses on our investments or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $10.0 million of long-term marketable investments in municipal notes with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities” or “ARS”). In February 2008, auctions had begun to fail for these securities, which means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. Based on current market conditions, it is likely that auction failures will continue and as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 