Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following additional factors may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Except for fiscal years 2003 and 2004, we have had a history of net annual losses. We may not be profitable in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability in the future and we continue to lose money, our operations will not be financially viable. Except for fiscal years 2003 and 2004 we have experienced net annual losses, and as of December 31, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $282 million. We may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets, such as the market for internet commerce. We believe that to achieve and sustain profitability, we must, among other things: · Continue to send new and used automotive Purchase Requests to Dealers that result in sufficient Dealer vehicle sales to justify our fees; · Expand the number of Dealers in our networks and increase the number of Purchase Requests delivered to Dealers; · Sustain and expand our relationships with Manufacturers; · Increase the volume of Purchase Requests that originate on our websites; · Expand Purchase Request referral sales to other automotive-related markets; · Assure continued access to a high volume of high quality Purchase Requests at acceptable prices from third party sources; · Maintain a high degree of customer satisfaction; · Provide secure and easy to use websites with relevant and quality content for consumers; · Increase visibility of our brand names; · Defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; · Continue to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · Continue to upgrade and enhance our technologies to accommodate expanded product and service offerings and increased consumer traffic. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving these goals or that if we are successful in achieving these goals, that we will be profitable in the future. We are affected by general economic conditions and, in particular, conditions in the automotive industry. General economic conditions, specifically including the adverse effect of high unemployment on the number of vehicle purchasers and the lack of available consumer credit to finance vehicle purchases have affected the automotive industry, which is currently experiencing what is considered to be the most challenging environment of the past several decades: · North American vehicle sales stabilized in 2010 from 2009 levels, but U.S. light vehicle sales remain at lower levels compared to years prior to 2008 · Unemployment levels remain a risk through 2011, · Fuel prices have been rising and may continue to rise in 2011. 12 table of contents Our strategy is dependent on increasing Purchase Request revenue; Should Dealer attrition occur in our network it could impact Purchase Request revenue and the number of Purchase Requests. Our strategy and achievement of profitability are dependent on our ability to increase Purchase Request revenue. If we are not successful in increasing Purchase Request revenue, then we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. Increasing Purchase Request revenue is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified Dealers and Manufacturers as well as expand the number of Purchase Requests we sell to our Dealers and Manufacturers. We derive a majority of our revenue from Purchase Request fees paid by Dealers and Manufacturers participating in our programs. Although in 2008 and 2009 we experienced attrition in the number of our Dealers, we halted this attrition during 2010 and ended the year with 27 % more Dealers compared to that number of Dealers at year-end 2009. The number of Manufacturers participating in our programs also increased during 2010 compared to 2009. In addition, we delivered 8% more Purchase Requests during 2010 than 2009. If Dealer attrition were to occur again and we were unable to add new Dealers to mitigate the attrition, our revenues might again decrease. Were Dealer attrition or reductions in the number of Purchase Requests sold to occur again, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to reduce the level of Dealer attrition or increase the number of Purchase Requests sold, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if Manufacturers or Dealers require us to decrease the fees we charge for our services, our revenues will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If any of our advertising relationships with Manufacturers terminate, our advertising rates decrease, or we are unable to develop additional advertising customers, our revenues will decrease. We depend on automotive Manufacturers for substantially all of our advertising revenues. The termination of any of these relationships, a decline in the level of advertising with us, reductions in advertising rates or any significant failure to develop additional sources of advertising would cause our revenues to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We periodically negotiate revisions to existing agreements and these revisions could decrease our advertising revenues in future periods. A number of our advertising agreements with Manufacturers may be terminated without cause. We may not be able to maintain our relationship with Manufacturers on favorable terms or find alternative comparable relationships capable of replacing advertising revenues on terms satisfactory to us. If we cannot do so, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Manufacturers are subject to product recalls or other business interruption, our revenues may decrease and our business could suffer. Manufacturers are periodically subject to product recalls. Product recalls may result in a decline in Purchase Request requests by our Dealers affected by the recalls, including the elimination of Purchase Requests for certain vehicle models or the cancellation of the Purchase Request program with us. If we cannot replace these Purchase Request sales with Purchase Request sales to other customers, our results of operations or financial condition will be materially and adversely impacted. Concentration of Credit Risk and Risks Due to Significant Customers. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable. Cash and cash equivalents are primarily maintained with two financial institutions in the United States. Deposits held by banks that exceed the amount of insurance provided for such deposits. Generally these deposits may be redeemed upon demand. Accounts receivable are primarily derived from fees billed to automotive Dealers and Manufacturers. We have a concentration of credit risk with our automotive industry related accounts receivable balances, and in particular with two Manufacturers (General Motors and Nissan). During 2010 approximately 16% of the Company’s total revenues were derived from these Manufacturers, and approximately 16% of its total gross accounts receivable are receivable from them at December 31, 2010. No collateral is required to support our accounts receivables and we maintain an allowance for bad debts for potential credit losses. If there is a decline in the general economic environment that negatively affects the financial condition of our customers or an increase in the number of customers that are dissatisfied with their services, additional estimated allowances for bad debts and customer credits may be required and the impact on the our business, results of operations or financial condition could be material. Competition could adversely affect our market share, pricing, cost structure and Purchase Request supply. The success we achieve in our Purchase Requests businesses is dependent on our ability to originate or acquire and sell high quality Purchase Requests in sufficient volumes at profitable margins. These Purchase Requests may be submitted by consumers through our websites or purchased from Third Party Websites. We actively compete for Dealer and Manufacturer 13 table of contents customers with companies that maintain automotive Purchase Request referral businesses that are very similar to ours. Several of these competitors are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we have. In addition to competition for customers, we also compete with several of these companies in the acquisition of Purchase Requests from third party Purchase Request suppliers. If we lose customers or quality Purchase Request supply volume to our competitors, or if our pricing or cost to acquire Purchase Requests is impacted, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely impacted. The success we achieve in our advertising business is dependent on our ability to attract and acquire consumers to our websites and monetize that traffic at profitable margins with advertisers. Our consumer facing websites compete with offerings from the major internet portals, transaction based sites, automotive verticals (websites with content that is primarily automotive in nature) and numerous lifestyle websites. Our advertising business is characterized by minimal barriers to entry, and new competitors may be able to launch competitive services at relatively low costs. If our websites do not provide a compelling, differentiated user experience, we may lose visitors to competing sites. Further, if our website traffic declines, we may lose relevance to our major advertisers who may reduce or eliminate their advertising buys. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, many of which have substantially more technical and financial resources as well as existing brand recognition. In addition, competitive pressures may result in increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our websites or loss of market share that may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that may make it difficult for investors to predict our future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to unforeseen events affecting the economy and industry in which we operate. Other factors that may adversely affect our quarterly operating results include our Purchase Request volume, which fluctuates with automotive industry sales volume that has some measure of seasonality. Typically, volume is highest in the spring and summer months, with lower volume in the fall and winter months. As seasonality occurs, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Seasonality in the automotive industry is likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are many risks associated with potential acquisitions. We may evaluate potential acquisitions which we believe will complement or enhance our existing business. If we acquire other companies in the future in exchange for our equity securities, existing stockholders’ may suffer dilution in the value of their shares and their percentage ownership. The impact of dilution may restrict our ability or otherwise not allow us to consummate acquisitions using equity securities. Issuance of equity securities may restrict utilization of net operating loss carryforwards because of an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. We may also utilize cash and incur debt and losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets if we acquire another company, and this could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. We may be unable to raise the capital necessary to consummate an acquisition. We may be unable to integrate successfully the companies that we may acquire and management attention may be diverted. We currently do not have any definitive agreements to acquire any company or business, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future. Risks Associated with Governmental Regulation We have identified below areas of government regulation, which if changed or interpreted to apply to our business, we believe could be costly for us. These laws and regulations include motor vehicle brokerage licensing laws, motor vehicle Dealer licensing laws, franchise laws, insurance licensing laws, financial services laws, data security and privacy laws, and tax laws. Uncertainty exists in the application of various laws and regulations to our business. New laws or regulations applicable to our business, or expansion or interpretation of existing laws and regulations to apply to our business, could subject us to licensing, claims, judgments and remedies, including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices, and could increase administrative costs or adversely affect our business. Although we do not believe that existing laws or regulations materially and adversely impact us, our business could be significantly affected by different interpretations or applications of existing laws or regulations, future laws or regulations, or actions or rulings by judicial or regulatory authorities. We operate in a regulatory climate in which there is uncertainty as to the application of various laws and regulations to our business. Our operations may be subjected to adoption, expansion or interpretation of various laws and regulations, and compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to obtain licenses at an undeterminable and possibly significant initial and annual expense. These additional expenditures may increase future overhead, thereby potentially reducing our future results of operations. There can be no assurance that future laws or regulations or interpretations or expansions of existing laws or regulations will not impose requirements on internet commerce that could 14 table of contents substantially impair the growth of e-commerce and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of e-commerce and internet marketing, restrict our present business practices, require us to implement costly compliance procedures or expose us and/or our customers to potential liability, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business. We may be considered to “operate” or “do business” in states where our customers conduct their business, resulting in regulatory action. In the event any state’s regulatory requirements impose state specific requirements on us or include us within an industry-specific regulatory scheme, we may be required to modify our marketing programs in that state in a manner that may undermine the program’s attractiveness to consumers or Dealers. In the alternative, if we determine that the licensing and related requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in that state. In each case, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If automotive Dealer or broker laws apply to us we may be required to modify or eliminate our marketing programs. If we are unable to market our services in the manner we currently market our services, our revenues may decrease and our business may suffer. All states comprehensively regulate vehicle sales and lease transactions, including strict licensure requirements for Dealers and, in some states, brokers. Most of these laws and regulations, we believe, specifically address only traditional vehicle purchase and lease transactions, not internet-based Purchase Request referral programs. We do not believe that our marketing services programs qualify as automobile brokerage activity in most states and, therefore, we do not believe that state motor vehicle Dealer or broker licensing requirements apply to us in most states. If we determine that the licensing or other regulatory requirements in a given state are applicable to us or to a particular marketing services program, we may elect to obtain required licenses and comply with applicable regulatory requirements. However, if licensing or other regulatory requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations or particular marketing services programs in that state or elect to not operate or introduce particular marketing services programs in that state. In some states we have modified our marketing programs or pricing models to reduce uncertainty regarding our compliance with local laws. As we introduce new services, we may need to incur additional costs associated with additional licensing regulations and regulatory requirements. If any state’s licensing or other regulatory requirements relating to motor vehicle Dealers or brokers are deemed applicable to us or to any particular marketing services program and we do not comply with those regulatory requirements, we may become subject to fines, penalties or other requirements and may be required to modify our marketing programs or pricing models in those states in a manner that undermines the attractiveness of the program to consumers or Dealers. In each case, our revenues may decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If franchise laws apply to us we may be required to modify or eliminate our marketing programs. If we are unable to market our services in the manner we currently market our services, our revenues may decrease and our business may suffer. We believe that neither our relationship with our Dealers nor our Dealer subscription agreements constitute “franchises” under federal or state franchise laws. However, if any state’s regulatory requirements relating to franchises or our method of business impose additional requirements on us or include us within an industry-specific regulatory scheme, we may be required to modify our marketing programs in that state in a manner that undermines the program’s attractiveness to consumers or Dealers. If our relationship or written agreement with our Dealers were found to be a “franchise” under federal or state franchise laws, we could be subject to additional requirements, such as franchise disclosure and registration requirements, and limitations on our ability to effect changes in our relationships with our Dealers, which may negatively impact our ability to compete and cause our revenues to decrease and our business to suffer. If we become subject to fines or other penalties or if we determine that the franchise and related requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in that state. If this happens, our revenues may decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If financial broker licensing requirements apply to us in states where we are not currently licensed, we will be required to obtain additional licenses, and our business may suffer. We provide a connection through our websites that allows consumers to obtain finance information and submit Purchase Requests for vehicle financing to third party lenders. We also acquire finance-related Purchase Requests from third parties. We receive marketing fees from financial institutions and Dealers in connection with this marketing activity. We do not demand nor do we receive any fees from consumers for this service. In the event states require us to be licensed as a financial broker, we may be unable to comply with a state’s laws or regulations, or we could be required to incur significant fees and expenses to obtain any financial broker required license and comply with regulatory requirements. In the event states require us to be licensed and we are unable to do so, or we are otherwise unable to comply with laws or regulations required by changes in current operations or the introduction of new services, we could be subject to fines or other penalties or be compelled to discontinue operations in those states, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If insurance licensing requirements apply to us in states where we are not currently licensed, we will be required to obtain additional licenses, and our business may suffer. We provide links on our websites and referrals from call centers enabling consumers to be referred to third parties to receive quotes for insurance and extended warranty coverage from such 15 table of contents third parties. All on-line applications for quotes are completed on the respective insurance carriers’ or other third party websites, and all applications for quotes obtained through call center referrals are conducted by the insurance carrier or other third party. We receive marketing fees from participants in connection with this marketing activity. We do not receive any premiums from consumers nor do we charge consumers fees for our services. We do not believe that these activities require us to be licensed under state insurance laws. However, if any state insurance licensing laws were determined to be applicable to us and if we are required to be licensed and we are unable to do so, or we are otherwise unable to comply with laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties or be compelled to discontinue operations in those states, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in the taxation of internet commerce may result in increased costs. Because our business is dependent on the internet, the adoption of new local, state or federal tax laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations by governmental authorities may subject us to additional local, state or federal sales, use or income taxes and could decrease the growth of internet usage or marketing or the acceptance of internet commerce which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and increase our costs. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Tax authorities in a number of states are currently reviewing and re-evaluating the tax treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce, including the application of sales taxes to internet marketing businesses similar to ours. We accrue for tax contingencies based upon our estimate of the taxes ultimately expected to be paid, which we update over time as more information becomes available. The amounts ultimately paid in resolution of reviews or audits by taxing authorities could be materially different from the amounts we have accrued and result in additional tax expense, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Data Security and Privacy Risks Our business is subject to various laws, rules and regulations relating to data security and privacy. New data security and privacy laws, rules and regulations may be adopted regarding the internet or other on-line services that could limit our business flexibility or cause us to incur higher compliance costs. Compliance with anti-spam laws, rules and regulations may impose significant costs and burdens on our email marketing activities, and violations of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or other enforcement actions. Among other laws, rules and regulations, federal and state legislation regulating email communications and internet advertising, such as proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email (commonly known as “spam”) may adversely affect our ability to market our services to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Violation of these laws may result in monetary fines or penalties or damage to our reputation. The federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (“CAN-SPAM”) imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial emails. In addition, the language of CAN-SPAM contains ambiguities, not all rules implementing CAN-SPAM have yet been promulgated, and courts have not yet interpreted key provisions of CAN-SPAM. In addition, state laws regulating the sending of commercial emails, including California’s law regulating the sending of commercial emails, to the extent found to not be preempted by CAN-SPAM, may impose requirements or conditions more restrictive than CAN-SPAM. Depending on how these laws are interpreted and applied, CAN-SPAM and such state laws may impose significant costs and burdens on our email marketing services and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with data privacy laws, rules and regulations may significantly impact our business. Various laws, rules and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from our users, advertisers, and affiliates. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data and personal information. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders or other federal or state privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users, advertisers, or Purchase Request referral and advertising affiliates which could adversely affect our business. We can not predict whether new legislation or regulations concerning data privacy and retention issues related to our business will be adopted. Certain proposals, if adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease in our user registrations and revenues. In addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are currently unsettled. New legislation being considered includes restrictions relating to the collection and use of data and information obtained through the tracking of internet use, including the possible implementation of a “Do Not Track” list that would allow internet users to opt-out of such 16 table of contents tracking, could materially and adversely impact our data licensing services and other marketing services and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Increased security risks of on-line Purchase Requests collection and referral, advertising and e-commerce may cause us to incur significant expenses and may negatively impact our credibility and business. A significant issue for on-line businesses like ours is the secure transmission of confidential and personal information over public networks. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy issues have been significant barriers to growth in consumer use of the internet, on-line advertising, and e-commerce. Despite our implementation of security measures, our computer systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptive harms and security breaches. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may specifically compromise our security measures. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding website visitors, whether through breach of our network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our reputation and brands, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain our audiences, or subject us to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and thereby harm our business and operating results. If consumers experience identity theft after using any of our websites, we may be exposed to liability, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation. To the extent that identity theft gives rise to reluctance to use our websites or a decline in consumer confidence in financial transactions over the internet, our business could be adversely affected. Alleged or actual breaches of the network of one of our business partners or competitors whom consumers associate with us could also harm our reputation and brands. In addition, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. For example, California law requires companies to inform individuals of any security breaches that result in their personal information being stolen. Because our success depends on the acceptance of on-line services and e-commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by those breaches. Internet fraud has been increasing over the past few years, and fraudulent on-line transactions, should they continue to increase in prevalence, could also materially and adversely affect the customer experience and therefore our business, operating results and financial condition. Technology Risks If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent click-throughs on advertisements displayed on our websites by persons seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to us. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks on an advertisement displayed on our website in order to generate revenue to us and to increase the cost for the advertiser. If we are unable to monitor and prevent this type of fraudulent activity, we may have to issue retroactive refunds of amounts previously paid to us if any such fraud is later detected. This fraud could cause Purchase Request advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue and thus, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success is dependent on keeping pace with advances in technology. If we are unable to keep pace with advances in technology, consumers may stop using our services and our revenues will decrease. If we are required to invest substantial amounts in technology, our results of operations will suffer. The internet and electronic commerce markets are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements, frequent new service and product introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing websites and technology obsolete. These market characteristics are intensified by the emerging nature of the market and the fact that many companies are expected to introduce new internet products and services in the near future. If we are unable to adapt to changing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license Purchase Requesting technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our websites, or other proprietary technology to customer requirements or to emerging industry standards. In addition, if we are required to invest substantial amounts in technology in order to keep pace with technological advances, our business results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Interruptions or failures in our information technology platforms, communication systems, or security systems could harm our operating results. Our information technology and communications systems are susceptible to outages and interruptions due to fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorist attacks, failure of redundant systems and disaster recovery plans and similar events. Such outages and interruptions could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We are insured for some, but not all, of these events. Even for those events for 17 table of contents which we are insured and have coverage under the terms and conditions of the applicable policies, there are no assurances given that the coverage limits would be sufficient to cover all losses we might incur or experience. We rely on third-party providers for our primary and secondary internet connections. Our co-location service which provides environmental and power support for our technology platforms, communication systems, and security systems is received from a third-party provider. We have little or no control over these third-party providers. Any disruption of the services they provide us or any failure of these third-party providers to effectively plan for increases in capacity could, in turn, cause delays or disruptions in our services. Despite our network security measures, our information technology platforms are vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, as well as coordinated denial-of-service attacks. We do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services. In the event of delays or disruptions to services we rely on third-party providers to perform disaster recovery planning and services on our behalf. We are vulnerable to extended failures to the extent that planning and services are not adequate to meet our continued technology platform, communication or security systems’ needs. For the foregoing reasons, interruptions or failures of our information technology platforms could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Securities Market Risks The public market for our common stock may be volatile, especially since market prices for internet-related and technology stocks have often been unrelated to operating performance. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, but we cannot assure that an active trading market will be sustained or that the market price of the common stock will not decline. The stock market in general has experienced significant price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: · Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · Historical and anticipated operating metrics such as the number of participating Dealers, volume of Purchase Request deliveries to Dealers, the number of visitors to our Owned Websites and the frequency with which they interact with our Owned Websites; · Announcements of new product or service offerings; · Technological innovations; · Low trading volumes; · Concentration of holdings in our common stock resulting in low public float for our shares; · Limited analyst coverage of the Company; · Competitive developments, including actions by Manufacturers; · Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to meet such estimates; · Conditions and trends in the internet, electronic commerce and automotive industries; · Our ability to comply with the conditions to continued listing of our stock on The NASDAQ Global Market; · Adoption of new accounting standards affecting the technology or automotive industry, and · General market or economic conditions and other factors. Further, the stock markets, and in particular The NASDAQ Global Market, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market factors have affected and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates, energy prices, international currency fluctuations, terrorist acts, political revolutions, military actions or wars, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies with publicly traded securities. This litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market if we are not able to maintain continued listing requirements, and if this were to occur, the price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected and the ability to buy and sell our stock may be less orderly and efficient. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Global Market is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the closing minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading 18 table of contents days. In 2010 and 2009, we received letters from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, notifying us that Autobytel failed to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price per share required for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. In each case, we regained compliance with the minimum bid price continued listing requirement within the grace period allowed to regain compliance. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, the price of our common stock, the ability of holders to sell such stock, and our ability to raise additional capital will likely be adversely affected. If our common stock is delisted and thereafter traded in the over-the-counter market, the ability to buy and sell our stock could be less orderly and efficient and more costly. If we sought to relist our stock on The NASDAQ Global Market we would be required to comply with all of the initial listing requirements to be relisted on The NASDAQ Global Market, which in some instances are more stringent than the continued listing requirements. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property and Other Litigation Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the internet and technology industries. We expect that internet technologies and software products and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Enforcement actions to protect our intellectual property could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete depends upon our proprietary systems and technology. While we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights, we believe that the technical and creative skills of our personnel, continued development of our proprietary systems and technology, brand name recognition and reliable website maintenance are more essential in establishing and maintaining a leadership position and strengthening our brands. As part of our procedures, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We have no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available when our products and services are made available on-line. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risk of claims from third parties relating to intellectual property that could materially and adversely affect our business. We have no assurance that our products and services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of infringement, even if unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could materially and adversely affect our business. If we are not successful, we may be subject to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief and monetary damages which may be trebled in the case willful infringements. If awarded, these remedies could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be materially and adversely affected by other litigation. From time to time, we are involved in litigation or legal matters not related to intellectual property rights and arising from the normal course of our business activities. The actions filed against us and other litigation or legal matters, even if not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and an adverse outcome in litigation could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Part II, Item 8, Note 7, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We could be adversely affected by actions of third parties that could subject us to litigation that could significantly and adversely affect our business. We could face liability for information retrieved or obtained from or transmitted over the internet by third parties and liability for products sold over the internet by third parties. We could be exposed to liability with respect to third-party information that may be accessible through our websites, links or vehicle review services. These claims might, for example, be made for defamation, negligence, patent, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury, breach 19 table of contents of contract, unfair competition, false advertising, invasion of privacy or other legal theories based on the nature, content or copying of these materials. These claims might assert, among other things that, by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties we should be liable for copyright or trademark infringement or other wrongful actions by such third parties through those websites. It is also possible that, if any third-party content provided on our websites contains errors, consumers could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on such information. Any claims could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We also enter into agreements with other companies under which any revenue that results from the purchase or use of services through direct links to or from our websites or on our websites is shared. In addition, we acquire personal information and data in the form of Purchase Requests purchased from third party websites involving consumers who submitted personally identifiable information and data to the third parties and not directly to us. These arrangements may expose us to additional legal risks and uncertainties, including disputes with these parties regarding revenue sharing, local, state and federal government regulation and potential liabilities to consumers of these services, even if we do not provide the services ourselves or have direct contact with the consumer. These liabilities can include liability for violations by these third parties of laws, rules and regulations, including those related to data security and privacy laws and regulations; unsolicited email, text messaging, telephone or wireless voice marketing; and licensing. We have no assurance that any indemnification provided to us in our agreements with these third parties, if available, will be adequate. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain additional financing for our future working capital needs. If we are unable to obtain additional financing we may not be able to continue to operate our business. Under our current operating plan for 2011, we currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and other cash requirements at least for the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds sooner, however, in order to develop new or enhance existing services or products or to respond to competitive pressures, or to acquire assets or businesses. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Recent macro-economic conditions include reported reductions in available credit. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures or acquire assets or businesses would be significantly limited. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business may also be materially and adversely affected in the event additional financing is not available when required. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, tax benefit preservation plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us or limit the price third parties are willing to pay for our stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws relating to our corporate governance and provisions in our tax benefit preservation plan (“Tax Benefit Preservation Plan”) could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, and could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The issuance of preferred stock also could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allow us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the board of directors is divided into three classes, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or change in our management because less than a majority of the board of directors are up for election at each annual meeting. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect corporate actions such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control of us. Under our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, rights to purchase capital stock of the Company (“Rights”) have been distributed as a dividend at the rate of one Right for each share of common stock. Each Right entitles its holder, upon triggering of the Rights, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company at a price of $8.00 (as such price may be adjusted under the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan) or, in certain circumstances, to instead acquire shares of common stock. The Rights will convert into a right to acquire common stock or other capital stock of the Company in certain circumstances and subject to certain exceptions. The Rights will be triggered upon the acquisition of 4.90% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock or future acquisitions by any existing holders of 4.90% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock. If a person or group acquires 4.90% or more of our common stock, all Rights holders, except the acquirer, will be entitled to acquire at the then exercise price of a Right that number of shares of our common stock which, at the time, has a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. 20 table of contents We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, the statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or did own 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Section 203 could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. If our internal controls and procedures fail, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In making its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, management used the criteria described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Management determined that we had no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. Our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors and fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. We have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and there is no assurance that we will not have one or more material weaknesses in the future resulting from failure of our internal controls and procedures. Our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis could be adversely affected by a failure in our internal control over financial reporting. If our financial statements are not fairly presented, investors may not have an accurate understanding of our operating results and financial condition. If our financial statements are not timely filed with the SEC, we could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If either or both of these events occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our ability to operate our business and the market price of our common stock. In addition, a failure in our internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 