Risk Factors Before you invest in our ordinary shares or American Depositary Receipts representing American Depositary Shares, which we refer to in this report as ADRs, you should understand the high degree of risk involved. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report, before you decide to purchase our ordinary shares or ADRs. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADRs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by development stage companies. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated accounting deficit of approximately $143.3 million (our current carry forward tax losses are substantially lower - for our current carry forward tax losses, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Governmental Economic, Fiscal, Monetary or Political Policies that Materially Affected or Could Materially Affect Our Operations”). We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates or technologies and cannot be sure we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates or technologies, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, consummate out-licensing agreements obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates and technologies and successfully commercialize them. If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs for our drug candidates, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials depends in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate at which we are able to collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are planning clinical trials that will seek to enroll patients with the same diseases and stages as we are studying. In addition, the multi-national nature of our studies adds another level of complexity and risk as the successful completion of those studies is subject to events affecting countries outside the United States. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis. 5 If third parties on which we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products. We depend on independent clinical investigators, and other third-party service providers to conduct the clinical trials of our drug candidates and technologies, and we expect to continue to do so. We also may, from time to time, engage a clinical research organization for the execution of our clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but we do not control many aspects of their activities. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocol. Our reliance on these third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our responsibility to comply with the regulations and standards of the US Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and/or other foreign regulatory agencies/authorities relating to good clinical practices. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the applicable trial’s plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our products, or could result in enforcement action against us. Our international clinical trials may be delayed or otherwise adversely impacted by social, political and economic factors affecting the particular foreign country. We may conduct clinical trials in different geographical locations. Our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any of these countries, or in any future foreign country in which we may initiate a clinical trial, are subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including: ·difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with clinical research organizations and physicians; ·different standards for the conduct of clinical trials and/or health care reimbursement; ·our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians, and partners; ·the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical products and treatment; and ·general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. Any disruption to our international clinical trial program could significantly delay our product development efforts. If the clinical data related to our drug candidates and technologies do not confirm positive early clinical data or preclinical data, our corporate strategy and financial results will be adversely impacted. Our drug candidates and technologies are either in preclinical or clinical stages. Specifically, our lead product candidates, Recombinant Human Erythropoietin (rHuEPO) and SAM-101, are planned for a Phase 2 clinical program and the Diversity Oriented Synthesis, or DOS program, and according to our knowledge based upon the most current reports we have received from Presidio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has not yet been tested in humans (see “Item 10. Additional Information - Material Contracts”). In order for our candidates to proceed to later stage clinical testing, they must show positive clinical or preclinical data. While rHuEPO has shown promising preclinical data and has also shown promising clinical observation data for the extension and improvement of the quality of life of Multiple Myeloma terminal patients prior to it being licensed to us, preliminary results of pre-clinical, clinical observations or clinical tests do not necessarily predict the final results, and promising results in pre-clinical, clinical observations or early clinical testing might not be obtained in later clinical trials. While SAM-101 has shown improvement in the positive symptoms of schizophrenia as well as the patients’ cognitive state, minimizes the negative symptoms (social parameters and patient cognition) and reduces weight gain side effects among patients, preliminary results of pre-clinical, clinical observations or clinical tests do not necessarily predict the final results, and promising results in pre-clinical, clinical observations or early clinical testing might not be obtained in later clinical trials. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Any negative results from future tests may prevent us from proceeding to later stage clinical testing, which would materially impact our corporate strategy and our financial results may be adversely impacted. 6 We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. If our drug candidates and technologies do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for commercial sale for any of our products. We currently do not have any drug candidates or technologies pending approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our potential partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we and/or our potential partners will have to conduct extensive pre-clinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials are very difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: ·obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial; ·reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ·slower than expected rates of patient recruitment due to narrow screening requirements; ·the inability of patients to meet protocol requirements imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; ·the need or desire to modify our manufacturing process; ·delays, suspension, or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and ·government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. 7 Following the completion of a clinical trial, regulators may not interpret data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests of our drug candidates and technologies the same way that we do, which could delay, limit or prevent our receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, the designs of our ongoing clinical trials were not, and the designs of future clinical trials may not be, reviewed or approved by the FDA prior to their commencement, and consequently the FDA could determine that the parameters of any existing or future studies are insufficient to demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. Failure to approve a completed study could also result from several other factors, including unforeseen safety issues, the determination of dosing, low rates of patient recruitment, the inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment, the inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols, and the lack of effectiveness of the trials. Specifically, in 2008, Amgen Inc. announced that US regulators added black box, or black label, warnings to its erythropoietin drugs, Epogen and Aranesp. Similar warnings were also added to Johnson and Johnson’s Procrit which is also licensed from Amgen. In the United States, a black box warning is a type of warning that appears on the package insert for prescription drugs that may cause serious adverse effects. A black box warning means that medical studies indicate that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. The warnings warn that the erythropoietin drugs increased death and accelerated tumor growth in patients with several types of cancer, including breast and cervical. Prior labeling warned of similar risks in other types of cancers. If the clinical trials fail to satisfy the criteria required, the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies/authorities may request additional information, including additional clinical data, before approval of marketing a product. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a clinical trial could also cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process, or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates and technologies may be materially impaired. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and technologies, and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, our products and their manufacture will be subject to continual review, and there can be no assurance that such approval will not be subsequently withdrawn or restricted. Changes in applicable legislation or regulatory policies, or discovery of problems with the products or their manufacture, may result in the imposition of regulatory restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market, or result in increased costs to us. Because all of our proprietary drug candidates and technologies are licensed to us by third parties, termination of these license agreements could prevent us from developing our drug candidates. We do not own all of our drug candidates and technologies. We have licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drug candidates from third parties. Specifically, we have recently licensed a patent on SAM-101 for the treatment of psychotic disorders, focusing on Schizophrenia from MinoGuard, who in turn licensed it from Mor. Furthermore, we licensed a use patent for the use patent on Recombinant Human Erythropoietin (rHuEPO) for the prolongation of multiple myeloma patients’ survival and improvement of their quality of life from Bio-Gal, who in turn licensed it from Mor and Yeda. and we have licensed DOS from VivoQuest, Inc. (see “Item 10. Additional Information-Material Contracts”), These license agreements require us to meet development or financing milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed drugs and technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. While we have the right to defend patent rights related to our licensed drug candidates and technologies, we are not obligated to do so. In the event that we decide to defend our licensed patent rights, we will be obligated to cover all of the expenses associated with that effort. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates and technologies. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development, collaboration and commercialization of our drug candidates or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which could be time-consuming and expensive. For a further discussion on our license agreements, the patent rights related to those licenses, and the expiration dates of those patent rights, see “Item 