ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. Risks Related to the Business We rely upon a few customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one or more of these customers, or a significant loss, reduction or rescheduling of orders from any of these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell most of our products to a small number of customers, and while we are continually seeking to expand our customer base, we expect this will continue. For the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008, sales to Nokia Siemens accounted for approximately 31% of our net sales and sales to Alcatel-Lucent accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales. Nokia and Siemens, who combined their wireless business effective April 1, 2007, accounted for approximately 35% of our revenues in 2007. Alcatel-Lucent accounted for approximately 16% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007. Nokia Siemens and Alcatel-Lucent are our two largest customers and any decline in either of their business with us will have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success is dependent upon the continued purchases of our products by a small number of customers such as Nokia Siemens, Alcatel-Lucent, other original equipment manufacturers and network operator customers. Any fluctuations in demand from such customers or other customers would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to broaden our customer base and expand relationships with major wireless original equipment manufacturers and major operators of wireless networks, our business will continue to be impacted by unanticipated demand fluctuations due to our dependence on a small number of customers. Unanticipated demand fluctuations can have a negative impact on our revenues and business, and an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our dependence on a small number of major customers exposes us to numerous other risks, including: • a slowdown or delay in deployment of wireless networks by any one or more customers could significantly reduce demand for our products; • reductions in a single customer’s forecasts and demand could result in excess inventories; • the current economic crisis could negatively affect one or more of our major customers and cause them to significantly reduce operations, or file for bankruptcy; • consolidation of customers can reduce demand as well as increase pricing pressure on our products due to increased purchasing leverage; • each of our customers has significant purchasing leverage over us to require changes in sales terms including pricing, payment terms and product delivery schedules; • direct competition should a customer decide to increase its level of internal designing and/or manufacturing of wireless communication network products; and • concentration of accounts receivable credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if one of our major customers declared bankruptcy or delayed payment of their receivables. Our operating results have been adversely impacted by the worldwide economic crisis and credit tightening. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated due to the credit crisis driven initially by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, recessionary concerns, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. All of these factors combined are having a negative impact on the availability of financial capital which is contributing to a reduction in demand for infrastructure in the wireless communication market. These conditions make it difficult or impossible for our customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, causing domestic and foreign businesses to slow or suspend spending on our products and services. As customers face this challenging economic time, they are finding it difficult to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which has resulted in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If this continues to occur, our revenues will be significantly reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days of sales outstanding may increase significantly, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this economic recession or the impact on the wireless industry. 12 Table of Contents We have previously experienced significant reductions in demand for our products by certain customers and if this continues, our operating results will be adversely impacted. We have a history of significant unanticipated reductions in demand that demonstrate the risks related to our customer and industry concentration levels. While our revenues have increased at times during fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of this increase was due to our various acquisitions. During fiscal years 2006 and 2007, we experienced significantly reduced demand for our products due to lower than anticipated purchasing plans by a major North American wireless network operator. In addition, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, when we acquired the wireless infrastructure division of Filtronic plc, Nokia and Siemens significantly reduced their demand which had a significant negative impact on both Powerwave and the Filtronic Wireless businesses. As a result of this reduction and the general slowdown in the wireless infrastructure marketplace during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, our revenues decreased to $169.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 from $249.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. This slowdown continued in the first six months of 2007, when our revenues declined from the fourth quarter of 2006. Our revenues also declined when compared to the first six months of 2006, even though the first six months of 2007 included the Filtronic Wireless acquisition. These types of reductions in overall market demand have had a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the global economic crisis and related recession began to have an impact on our customers and their demand for our products. As a result of this economic crisis, our revenues decreased to $180.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 from $238.0 million in the third quarter of 2008, and $230.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. We currently anticipate that our customers will significantly reduce their demand for wireless infrastructure products in the near term, thereby negatively impacting all companies within our industry. This expected reduction in demand will have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007, we also experienced a significant reduction in demand from Nortel. In the first quarter of 2009, Nortel filed for bankruptcy protection. Given the current economic climate, it is possible that one or more of our customers will suffer significant financial difficulties, including potentially filing for bankruptcy protection. In such an event, the demand for our products from these customers may decline significantly or cease completely. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to generate new demand to offset any such reductions from existing customers. If we are unable to continue to generate new demand, our revenues will go down and our results of operations and financial condition will be negatively impacted. Also, in the past we have experienced significant unanticipated reductions in wireless network operator demand as well as significant delays in demand for 3G, or next generation service based products due to the high projected capital cost of building such networks and market concerns regarding the inoperability of such network protocols. In combination with these market issues, a majority of wireless network operators have in the past regularly reduced their capital spending plans in order to improve their overall cash flow. There is a substantial likelihood that the global economic recession will continue throughout 2009, thereby having a negative impact on network operator deployment spending plans. The impact of any future reduction in capital spending by wireless network operators, coupled with any delays in deployment of wireless networks will result in reduced demand for our products which will have a material adverse effect on our business. We may need additional capital in the future and such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. At December 28, 2008, we had approximately $50.3 million of cash, with $3.4 million of it restricted. While we generated $27.8 million in cash provided by operating activities in 2008, we used $26.2 million of cash in operating activities in 2007. We cannot provide any guarantee that we will generate sufficient cash in the future to maintain or grow our operations over the long-term. We rely upon our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund our business. If we are not able to generate positive cash flow from operations, we may need to utilize sources of financing such as our revolving trade receivables purchase agreement or other sources of cash. While the revolving trade receivables purchase agreement, which expires May 15, 2009, gives us additional sources of liquidity, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to fund existing operations or to take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid international expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies. If we are not successful in integrating our businesses, reducing our inventories and accounts receivable and managing the worldwide aspects of our company, our operations may not generate positive cash flow and we may consume our cash resources faster than we anticipate. Such losses would make it difficult to obtain new sources of financing. In addition, if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to raise additional funds to repay our $306.3 million of remaining outstanding convertible debt that we issued in 2004 and 2007. Our ability to secure additional financing or sources of funding is dependent upon numerous factors, including the current outlook of our business, our credit rating and the market price of our common stock, all of which are directly impacted by our ability to increase revenues and generate profits. In addition, the availability of new financing is dependent upon functioning debt and equity markets with financing available on reasonable terms. Given the recent credit crisis, there can be no guarantee that such a market will be available to us. If such a market is not available, we may not be able to raise new financing, which would negatively impact our business and possibly impact our ability to maintain operations as presently conducted. Our ability to increase revenues and generate profits is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including the likelihood of decreased revenues in the current macro-economic environment, and any significant decrease in our revenues or profitability could reduce our operating cash flows and erode our existing cash balances. Our ability to reduce our inventories and accounts receivable and improve our cash flow is dependent on numerous risks and uncertainties and if we are not able to reduce our inventories, we will 13 Table of Contents not generate the cash required to operate our business. Our ability to secure additional financing is also dependent upon the credit markets, which have recently become highly constrained due to credit concerns arising from the subprime mortgage lending market and subsequent worldwide economic recession. If we are unable to secure additional financing or such financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our operations, otherwise respond to unanticipated competitive pressures, or repay our convertible debt. We may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of our customers. We may not successfully evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. While we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, greater than anticipated nonpayment and delinquency rates could harm our financial results and liquidity. Given the current global economic recession, there are potentials risks and greater than anticipated customer defaults. In the first quarter of 2009, our customer Nortel filed for U.S. bankruptcy protection. If the financial condition of any of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur unanticipated costs as we complete the restructuring of our business. We have previously encountered difficulties and delays in integrating and consolidating operations which have had a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to successfully integrate these operations could undermine the anticipated benefits and synergies of the restructuring, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated benefits and synergies of our restructurings relate to cost savings associated with operational efficiencies and greater economies of scale. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a smooth and successful integration of our business. We may need to undertake restructuring actions in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with cost cutting measures and measures to improve the efficiency of our operations. As a result of business conditions, we may need to initiate restructuring actions that could result in restructuring charges which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such potential restructuring actions could include cash costs that could reduce our available cash balances, which would have a negative impact on our business. The potential for increased commodity and energy costs may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The world economy experienced significant fluctuations in the price of oil and energy during 2008. During the first three quarters of 2008, such fluctuations resulted in significant price increases which translated into higher freight and transportation costs and, in certain cases, higher raw material supply costs. These higher costs negatively impacted our production costs. We were not able to pass on these higher costs to our customers and if we insist on raising prices, our customers may curtail their purchases from us. The costs of energy and items directly related to the cost of energy will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, political conditions and the weather. Further increases in energy prices may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: • the lack of any obligation by our customers to purchase their forecasted demand for our products; • costs associated with restructuring activities, including severance, inventory obsolescence and facility closure costs; • variations in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments; • costs associated with consolidating acquisitions; • high fixed expenses that increase operating expenses, especially during a quarter with a sales shortfall; • product failures and associated warranty and in-field service support costs; and • discounts given to certain customers for large volume purchases. We have regularly generated a large percentage of our revenues in the last month of a quarter. Since we attempt to ship products quickly after we receive orders, we may not always have a significant backlog of unfilled orders at the start of each quarter and we may be required to book a substantial portion of our orders during the quarter in which such orders ship. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. 14 Table of Contents Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Any shortfall in sales relative to our quarterly expectations or any delay of customer orders would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have, in the past, adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite these factors, we, along with our contract manufacturers, maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than their forecasted orders or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers desire to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there may not be enough inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. Future revenues and operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In either case, the price of our Common Stock could be materially adversely affected. Our average sales prices have declined, and we anticipate that the average sales prices for our products will continue to decline and negatively impact our gross profit margins. Wireless service providers are continuing to place pricing pressure on wireless infrastructure manufacturers, which in turn, has resulted in lower selling prices for our products, with certain competitors aggressively reducing prices in an effort to increase their market share. The consolidation of original equipment manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens is concentrating their purchasing power at the surviving entities, which is placing further pricing pressures on the products we sell to such customers. Moreover, the current economic downturn may cause wireless service providers to be even more aggressive in demanding price reductions as they attempt to reduce costs. As a result, we may be forced to further reduce our prices to such customers, which would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. If we do not agree to lower our prices as some customers request, those customers may stop purchasing our products, which would significantly impact our business. We believe that the average sales prices of our products will continue to decline for the foreseeable future. The weighted average sales price for our products declined approximately 6% to 9% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008 and we expect that this will continue going forward. Since wireless infrastructure manufacturers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we must often commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, we can obtain such cost reductions. With ongoing consolidation in our industry, the increased size of many of our customers allows them to exert greater pressure on us to reduce prices. In addition, average sales prices are affected by price discounts negotiated without firm orders for large volume purchases by certain customers. To offset declining average sales prices, we must reduce manufacturing costs and ultimately develop new products with lower costs or higher average sales prices. If we cannot achieve such cost reductions or increases in average selling prices, our gross margins will decline. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers could become competitors. Many of our customers internally design and/or manufacture their own wireless communications network products. These customers also continuously evaluate whether to manufacture their own wireless communications network products or utilize contract manufacturers to produce their own internal designs. Certain of our customers regularly produce or design wireless communications network products in an attempt to replace products manufactured by us. In addition, some customers threaten to undertake such activities if we do not agree to their requested price reductions. We believe that all of these practices will continue. In the event that our customers manufacture or design their own wireless communications network products, such customers could reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products, which would result in reduced revenues and would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Wireless infrastructure equipment manufacturers with internal manufacturing capabilities, including many of our customers, could also sell wireless communications network products externally to other manufacturers, thereby competing directly with us. In addition, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may decide to produce competing products directly for our customers and, effectively, compete against us. If, for any reason, our customers produce their wireless communications network products internally, increase the percentage of their internal production, require us to participate in joint venture manufacturing with them, require us to reduce our prices, engage our suppliers or contract manufacturers to manufacture competing products, or otherwise compete directly against us, our revenues would decrease, which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success is tied to the growth of the wireless services communications market and our future revenue growth is dependent upon the expected increase in the size of this market. Our revenues come from the sale of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. Our future success depends solely upon the growth and increased availability of wireless communications services. Wireless communications services may not grow at a rate fast enough to create demand for our products, as we experienced during fiscal 2003, in fiscal 2006, in fiscal 2007 and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Some of our network operator customers rely on credit to finance the build-out or 15 Table of Contents expansion of their wireless networks. The current credit environment and the worldwide economic recession will likely result in a reduction of demand from some of our customers in the near term. During fiscal 2006 and into fiscal 2007, a major North American wireless network operator significantly reduced demand for new products. In addition, during the same period, several major equipment manufacturers began a process of consolidating their operations, which significantly reduced their demand for products. During fiscal 2003, wireless network operators reduced or delayed capital spending on wireless networks in order to preserve their operating cash and improve their balance sheets. Such reduced spending on wireless networks had a negative impact on our operating results. If wireless network operators delay or reduce levels of capital spending, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to risks of excess inventory or inventory carrying costs. If our contract manufacturers are unable to timely respond to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand resulting in lost revenues, or alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. In the past, we have been required to take delivery of materials from our suppliers and subcontractors that were in excess of our requirements and we have previously recognized charges and expenses related to such excess material. We expect that we will incur such costs in the future. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the use of all inventories is reduced since we do not have full operating control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers and manage the costs associated with our contract manufacturers, we may be required to pay inventory carrying costs or purchase excess inventory. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our operating results and liquidity would be negatively impacted. Future acquisitions, or strategic alliances, may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals intended at the time of any acquisition or strategic alliance. In the past, we have acquired and made investments in other companies, products and technologies and entered into strategic alliances with other companies. We continually evaluate these types of opportunities. We may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies, or we may enter into joint ventures, mergers or strategic alliances with other companies. Such transactions subject us to numerous risks, including the following: • difficulty integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company; • inability to achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the specific acquisition or strategic alliance; • significant additional warranty costs due to product failures and or design differences that were not identified during due diligence, and such costs could result in charges to earnings if they are not recoverable from the seller; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel from the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to product quality, product architecture, legal and financial contingencies, and product development; and • significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks as part of any acquisition or joint venture, our business would be adversely affected. We depend on single sources or limited sources for key components and products, which exposes us to risks related to product shortages or delays, as well as potential product quality issues, all of which could increase the cost of our products thereby reducing our operating profits. A number of our products and the parts used in our products are available from only one or a limited number of outside suppliers due to unique component designs, as well as certain quality and performance requirements. To take advantage of volume pricing discounts, we also purchase certain products, and along with our contract manufacturers, purchase certain customized components from single or limited sources. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, shortages of single-source and limited-source components. Shortages have compelled us to adjust our product designs and production schedules and have caused us to miss customer requested delivery dates. To date, missed customer delivery dates have not had a material adverse impact on our 16 Table of Contents financial results. If single-source or limited-source components become unavailable in sufficient quantities in the desired time periods, are discontinued or are available only on unsatisfactory terms, we would be required to purchase comparable components from other sources and may be required to redesign our products to use such components which could delay production and delivery of our products. If production and delivery of our products are delayed such that we do not meet the agreed upon delivery dates of our customers, such delays could result in lost revenues due to customer cancellations, as well as potential financial penalties payable to our customers. Any such loss of revenue or financial penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our reliance on certain single-source and limited-source components and products also exposes us and our contract manufacturers to quality control risks if these suppliers experience a failure in their production process or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements. A failure in a single-source or limited-source component or product could force us to repair or replace a product utilizing replacement components. If we cannot obtain comparable replacements or redesign our products, we could lose customer orders or incur additional costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to develop products that are sufficiently manufacturable, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Manufacturing our products is a complex process that requires significant time and expertise to meet customers’ specifications. Successful manufacturing is substantially dependent upon the ability to assemble and tune these products to meet specifications in an efficient manner. In this regard, we largely depend on our staff of assembly workers and trained technicians at our internal manufacturing operations in the U.S., Europe and Asia, as well as our contract manufacturers’ staff of assembly workers and trained technicians located in Asia and Europe. If we cannot design our products to minimize the manual assembly and tuning process, or if we or our contract manufacturers lose a number of trained assembly workers and technicians or are unable to attract additional trained assembly workers or technicians, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a cost effective manner. We may fail to develop products that are of adequate quality and reliability, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We have had quality problems with our products including those we have acquired in recent business acquisitions. We may have similar product quality problems in the future. We have replaced components in some products and replaced entire products in accordance with our product warranties. We believe that our customers will demand that our products meet increasingly stringent performance and reliability standards. If we cannot keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and new communications protocols, if we fail to adequately improve product quality and meet the quality standards of our customers, or if our contract manufacturers fail to achieve the quality standards of our customers, we risk losing business which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Design problems could also damage relationships with existing and prospective customers and could limit our ability to market our products to large wireless infrastructure manufacturers, many of which build their own products and have stringent quality control standards. In addition, we have incurred significant costs addressing quality issues from products that we have acquired in certain of our acquisitions. We are also required to honor certain warranty claims for products that we have acquired in our recent acquisitions. While we intend to seek recovery of amounts that we have paid, or may pay in the future, to resolve warranty claims through indemnification from the prior manufacturer, such process can be costly and time consuming. If we are unable to hire and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Competition for personnel, particularly qualified engineers, is intense. The loss of a significant number of such persons, as well as the failure to recruit and train additional technical personnel in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may also have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our success depends upon the knowledge and experience of our management and technical personnel and our ability to market our existing products and to develop new products. Our employees are generally employed on an at- will basis and do not have non-compete agreements. Therefore, we have had, and may continue to have, employees leave us and go to work for competitors. There are significant risks related to our internal and contract manufacturing operations in Asia and Europe. As part of our manufacturing strategy, we utilize contract manufacturers in China, Europe, Singapore and Thailand. We also maintain our own manufacturing operations in China and Estonia, as well as the United States. We closed our Costa Rica manufacturing facility in December 2006, sold our Hungary manufacturing operations in December 2007, and began to discontinue manufacturing operations in Finland in the fourth quarter of 2008. 17 Table of Contents The Chinese legal system lacks transparency, which gives the Chinese central and local government authorities a higher degree of control over our business in China than is customary in the United States and makes the process of obtaining necessary regulatory approval in China inherently unpredictable. In addition, the protection accorded our proprietary technology and know-how under the Chinese and Thai legal systems is not as strong as in the United States and, as a result, we may lose valuable trade secrets and competitive advantage. Also, manufacturing our products and utilizing contract manufacturers, as well as other suppliers throughout the Asia region, exposes our business to the risk that our proprietary technology and ownership rights may not be protected or enforced to the extent that they may be in the United States. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform and a policy of welcoming foreign investments during the past two decades, it is possible that the Chinese government will change its current policies in the future, making continued business operations in China difficult or unprofitable. In September 2006, Thailand experienced a military coup which overturned the existing government. In late 2008, anti-government protests and civilian occupations culminated with a court-ordered ouster of Thailand’s prime minister. To date, this has not had a long-term impact on our operations in Thailand. If there were to be future coups or some other type of political unrest, such activity may impact the ability to manufacture products in this region and may prevent shipments from entering or leaving the country. Any such disruptions could have a material negative impact on our operations and financial results. We require air or ocean transport to ship products built in our various manufacturing locations to our customers. High energy costs have increased our transportation costs which has had a negative impact on our production costs. Transportation costs would also escalate if there were a shortage of air or ocean cargo space and any significant increase in transportation costs would cause an increase in our expenses and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to obtain cargo space or secure delivery of components or products due to labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns or work stoppages by longshoremen, dock workers, airline pilots or other transportation industry workers, our delivery of products could be adversely delayed. The initial sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy, often lasting from nine to eighteen months, which could cause delays in forecasted sales and cause us to incur substantial expenses before we record any associated revenues. Our customers normally conduct significant technical evaluations, trials and qualifications of our products before making purchase commitments. This qualification process involves a significant investment of time and resources from both our customers and us in order to ensure that our product designs are fully qualified to perform as required. The qualification and evaluation process, as well as customer field trials, may take longer than initially forecasted, thereby delaying the shipment of sales forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter and causing our operating results for the quarter to be less than originally forecasted. Such a sales shortfall would reduce our profitability and negatively impact our results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business internationally, which exposes us to increased business risks. For fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, international revenues (excluding North American sales) accounted for approximately 70%, 73% and 72% of our net sales, respectively. There are many risks that currently impact, and will continue to impact our international business and multinational operations, including the following: • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Europe, Asia and North and South America, including export requirements, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health and safety requirements; • potential labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns and work stoppages at U.S. and international ports; • differences in intellectual property protections throughout the world; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in Europe, Asia and South America, including dealings with unionized labor pools in Europe and in Asia; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in Europe, Asia and South America; • currency fluctuations and resulting losses on currency translations; • terrorist attacks on American companies; • economic instability, including inflation and interest rate fluctuations, such as those previously seen in South Korea and Brazil; • competition for foreign based suppliers throughout the world; 18 Table of Contents • overlapping or differing tax structures; • the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations and our potential inability to benefit/offset losses in one tax jurisdiction with income from another; • cultural and language differences between the United States and the rest of the world; and • political or civil turmoil. Any failure on our part to manage these risks effectively would seriously reduce our competitiveness in the wireless infrastructure marketplace. Protection of our intellectual property is limited. We rely upon trade secrets and patents to protect our intellectual property. We execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees and our suppliers, as well as limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have an ongoing program to identify and file applications for U.S. and other international patents. The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us, or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have non-compete agreements with our employees who are generally employed on an at-will basis. Therefore, we have had, and may continue to have, employees leave us and go to work for competitors. If we are not successful in prohibiting the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or the use of our processes by a competitor, our competitive advantage may be significantly reduced which would result in reduced revenues. We are at risk of third-party claims of infringement that could harm our competitive position. We have received third-party claims of infringement in the past and have been able to resolve such claims without having a material impact on our business. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that we may face additional infringement claims. Such claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A third party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products, which would adversely affect our customer relationships and negatively impact our revenues. The communications industry is heavily regulated. We must obtain regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell our products, and our customers must obtain approvals to operate our products. Any failure or delay by us or any of our customers to obtain such approvals could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Various governmental agencies have adopted regulations that impose stringent radio frequency emissions standards on the communications industry. Future regulations may require that we alter the manner in which radio signals are transmitted or otherwise alter the equipment transmitting such signals. The enactment by governments of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations could negatively impact the market for our products. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for such products, generally following extensive investigation and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in this type of governmental approval process have caused, and may continue to cause, the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These types of unanticipated delays would result in delayed or cancelled customer orders. The wireless communications infrastructure equipment industry is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product development, rapid product obsolescence, evolving industry standards and significant price erosion over the life of a product. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our products compete on the basis of the following characteristics: • performance; • functionality; • reliability; • pricing; • quality; • designs that can be efficiently manufactured in large volumes; • time-to-market delivery capabilities; and • compliance with industry standards. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to address the above factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current competitors include CommScope, Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc., Japan Radio Co., Ltd., Kathrein-Werke KG, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and Radio Frequency Systems, in addition to a number of privately held companies throughout the world, subsidiaries of certain multinational corporations and the internal manufacturing operations and design groups of the leading wireless infrastructure manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Huawei, Motorola, Nokia Siemens, Nortel, and Samsung. Some competitors have adopted aggressive pricing strategies in an attempt to gain market share, which in return, has caused us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive. Such pricing actions have had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and have achieved greater name recognition for their products and technologies than we have. If we are unable to successfully increase our market penetration or our overall share of the wireless communications infrastructure equipment market, our revenues will decline, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our failure to enhance our existing products or to develop and introduce new products that meet changing customer requirements and evolving technological standards could have a negative impact on our ability to sell our products. To succeed, we must improve current products and develop and introduce new products that are competitive in terms of price, performance and quality. These products must adequately address the requirements of wireless infrastructure manufacturing customers and end-users. To develop new products, we invest in the research and development of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. We target our research and development efforts on major wireless network deployments worldwide, which cover a broad range of frequency and transmission protocols. In addition, we are currently working on products for next generation networks, as well as development projects for products requested by our customers and improvements to our existing products. The deployment of a wireless network may be delayed which could result in the failure of a particular research or development effort to generate a revenue producing product. Additionally, the new products we develop may not achieve market acceptance or may not be able to be manufactured cost effectively in sufficient volumes. Our research and development efforts are generally funded internally and our customers do not normally pay for our research and development efforts. These costs are expensed as incurred. Therefore, if our efforts are not successful at creating or improving products that are purchased by our customers, there will be a negative impact on our operating results due to high research and development expenses. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruptions by man made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and a large portion of our U.S. based research and development operations are located in the State of California in regions known for seismic activity. In addition, we have production facilities and have outsourced some of our production to contract manufacturers in Asia, another region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake in either of these regions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our stock price currently does not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our Common Stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. Recently, the minimum bid price for our Common Stock listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been below the $1.00 minimum. The NASDAQ MarketPlace Rules provide that one of the continuing listing requirements for an issuer’s common stock is having a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. NASDAQ has announced a moratorium on the enforcement of this minimum bid requirement that is effective through April 20, 2009. If our stock price does not increase above $1.00 per share, we risk being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market if the moratorium is not extended. We cannot control whether NASDAQ will agree to extend the moratorium in the future or the duration of any such moratorium. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by NASDAQ, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets. Each of these alternatives will likely result in it being more difficult for investors to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our Common Stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that our common stock will be eligible for trading on any of such alternative exchanges or markets. In addition, delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital through the public or private sale of equity securities. Delisting from NASDAQ also would make trading our Common Stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price and inhibiting a stockholder’s ability to liquidate all or part of their investment in Powerwave. 20 Table of Contents The price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our shareholders may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our Common Stock has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant volume and price fluctuations, which makes our Common Stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the two years ended December 28, 2008, the closing price of our Common Stock ranged from a high of $7.45 to a low of $0.40 per share. During the first two months of 2009, the closing price of our Common Stock reached a low of $0.31 per share. The fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock have occasionally been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock has also been influenced by: • fluctuations in our results of operations or the operations of our competitors or customers; • the aggregate amount of our outstanding debt and perceptions about our ability to make debt service payments; • failure of our results of operations and sales revenues to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; • reductions in wireless infrastructure demand or expectations regarding future wireless infrastructure demand by our customers; • delays or postponement of wireless infrastructure deployments, including new 3G deployments; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our customers; • the timing and announcements of technological innovations, new products or financial results by us or our competitors; • lawsuits attempting to allege misconduct by the Company and its officers; • increases in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding; and • changes in the wireless industry. In addition, the potential conversion of our outstanding convertible debt instruments would add approximately 31.3 million shares of Common Stock to our outstanding shares. Such an increase may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our Common Stock. Any potential future sale or issuance of shares of our Common Stock or instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Based on the above, we expect that our stock price will continue to be extremely volatile. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our investors will be able to resell our Common Stock at or above its acquisition price. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to audit management’s report. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, particularly because Section 404 and Auditing Standard No. 5 are newly effective, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management’s assessment. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management may not be able to assert such internal controls are effective. Although we currently anticipate being able to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there are limited precedents available by which to measure compliance with these new requirements. Therefore, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our 21 Table of Contents management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our shareholder rights plan and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing shareholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which in turn, could harm our stock price and our shareholders. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 