Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our independent registered public accounting firm has rendered a report expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our accompanying audited financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that might result if we cease to continue as a going concern. As a result of the recurring losses from operations and liquidity deficiency that we have experienced, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. They have discussed this uncertainty in their report on our audited financial statements. Uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern may create a concern among our current and future vendors and lenders, which may make it more difficult for us to meet our obligations. We have a history of operating losses and may never achieve profitability. From inception through August 31, 2006, we have incurred an accumulated deficit in the amount of $241,049,000. For the year ended August 31, 2006, we incurred losses from operations in the amount of $26,933,000. We anticipate that we will incur losses from operations for the foreseeable future. Our future revenues may never exceed operating expenses, thereby making the continued viability of our company dependent upon raising additional capital. As we have not generated positive cash flow from operations, our ability to continue operations is dependent on our ability to either begin to generate positive cash flow from operations or our ability to raise capital from outside sources. We have not generated positive cash flow from operations and have relied on external sources of capital to fund operations. At August 31, 2006, we had approximately $3,139,000 in cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale, and a working capital deficit of approximately $10,613,000. Our net cash used by operations for the year ended August 31, 2006, was approximately $9,217,000. We currently have an investment agreement with Dutchess Private Equities Fund, L.P. (“Dutchess”), commonly referred to as an equity line of credit. Under that agreement, Dutchess is committed to purchase up to $5,000,000 of our common stock over the 36-month term of the investment agreement. As of November 7, 2006, we have drawn down $3,463,803 of the $5,000,000 commitment, leaving $1,536,197 available under the equity line. Though we have been successful at raising capital on a best efforts basis in the past, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any future best-efforts financing endeavors. We will need to continue to rely upon financing from external sources to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital from external sources to fund our operations, we will need to sell assets to meet working capital needs or curtail operations. Our current levels of debt could impact our operations in the future. On February 10, 2006, the company entered into a purchase agreement with Dutchess Private Equities Fund, L.P., pursuant to which the company sold an $822,500, 12% convertible note due February 10, 2011. On February 15, 2006, the company entered into a settlement agreement with The Tail Wind Fund Ltd., pursuant to which the company issued two convertible notes in the aggregate amount of $2,750,000 and issued a $400,000 non-convertible promissory note. On July 24, 2006, the company entered into a promissory note agreement with Dutchess Private Equities Fund, L.P., pursuant to which the company sold a $5,500,000, 12% promissory note due July 24, 2008. For the year ending August 31, 2006, the company has timely satisfied all of its debt obligations, but will require cash principal and interest payments of $4,120,000 to satisfy debt obligations in the upcoming fiscal year. The company anticipates satisfying certain debt obligations of approximately $2,800,000 in common stock during the upcoming fiscal year. See Note 8-Notes Payable and Long Term Debt; Note 23-Subsequent Events; and Management’s Discussion and Analysis-Contractual Obligations. Our business strategy focuses on the marketing and sale of three core product offerings, any of which may not be commercially successful. Two of our three core product offerings are in emerging markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological obsolescence. Therefore, there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in marketing these products, or that customers will ultimately purchase our products. Failure to have commercial success from the sale of these products will negatively impact our financial condition. Volatility of the stock market. There have been significant fluctuations in the market price for the company’s common stock. Factors such as variations in the company’s revenues, earnings and cash flow and announcements of innovations or acquisitions by the company or its competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected companies in the technology market, resulting in changes in the market price of the stock of many companies which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the company’s common stock. We have been named a defendant in certain lawsuits, which if determined adversely, could harm our ability to fund operations. Eagle and its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in certain lawsuits in which the plaintiffs are seeking substantial damages, including the following: · H. Dean Cubley v. Eagle Broadband, Inc. In August 2006, Mr. Cubley, a former director of the company, filed a lawsuit against the company for non-payment of a promissory note issued by the company in December 2003 in the original principal amount of $2,680,000. The lawsuit seeks to enforce the note, which was issued in lieu of the issuance of shares for stock options then held by Mr. Cubley, who was at the time Chairman of the Board of the company. The lawsuit seeks recovery of the principal balance of approximately $1.9 million plus $541,000 in interest. The company has asserted defenses, including a defense that the execution of the promissory note by the company was induced by misrepresentations. The company believes Mr. Cubley’s claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit. The company has accrued $2.4 million in connection with this claim. · Cornell Capital Partners, LP v. Eagle Broadband, Inc. In July 2003, Cornell Capital sued Eagle Broadband alleging breach of contract, common law fraud, state and federal securities fraud, and negligent misrepresentation. Cornell also alleged that Eagle defaulted on a convertible debenture for failing to timely register the shares of common stock underlying the convertible debenture and is seeking to accelerate the maturity date of the debenture. In November 2003, the principal balance of the debenture was repaid, although the suit remains outstanding. Cornell claims damages of approximately $1.3 million. Eagle asserted counterclaims against Cornell for fraud and breach of contract in the amount of $2 million. In March 2006, the court ruled in favor of Cornell on certain claims, granting Cornell’s motion for partial summary judgment on its breach of contract claim and denying all of Eagle’s counterclaims. The court ruled in favor of Eagle on other claims, granting Eagle’s motion for summary judgment on Cornell’s claims of common law fraud, state and federal securities fraud, and negligent misrepresentation. The company has accrued $750,000 in settlement expense against this lawsuit. · State of Texas, et al. v. United Computing Group, Inc. and H. Dean Cubley, individually. In September 2005, filed a lawsuit against United Computing Group, Inc., and H. Dean Cubley, individually, for unpaid sales and use tax, interest and penalties in the amount of $568,637 for the time period of March 1998 through December 2001. The company has accrued $560,000 in connection with this lawsuit. · State of Florida Dept. of Environmental Protection v. Reco-Tricote, Inc., and Southeast Tire Recycling Inc., currently known as Clearworks.net, Inc. The Florida EPA sued Clearworks.net presenting claims for recovery costs and penalties for a waste tire processing facility. The suit seeks recovery of costs and penalties in a sum in excess of $1,000,000, attorneys’ fees and court costs. Clearworks denies the claims and intends to vigorously contest all claims in this case and to enforce its indemnification rights against the principals of Southeast Tire Recycling. We intend to vigorously defend these and other lawsuits and claims against us. However, we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, as well as other legal proceedings and claims with certainty. An adverse resolution of any one pending lawsuit could substantially harm our ability to fund operations. Our future revenues are not predictable. Historical revenues should not be viewed as indicative of any future revenues since future revenues will be dependant upon the market acceptance of our core product offerings of IPTVComplete, SatMAX and IT Services. Our business is subject to many factors that could cause quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate and our stock price to be volatile. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly or annual operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the factors that could affect our quarterly or annual operating results include: · the timing and amount of, or cancellation or rescheduling of, orders for our products; · our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support certain products; · announcements, new product introductions and reductions in price of products offered by our competitors; · our ability to control costs; · the loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant reduction in orders from those customers; · increased competition, particularly from larger, better capitalized competitors; · fluctuations in demand for our products and services; and · market conditions specifically and economic conditions generally. We rely heavily on third-party suppliers for the material components for our products and supply shortages could cause delays in manufacturing and delivering products which could reduce our revenues. We rely upon unaffiliated suppliers for the material components and parts used to assemble our products. Most parts and components purchased from suppliers are available from multiple sources. We have not experienced significant supply shortages in the past and we believe that we will be able to continue to obtain most required components and parts from multiple suppliers. However, the lack of availability of certain components could require a major redesign of our products and could result in production and delivery delays, which could reduce revenues from product sales. Because our industry is rapidly evolving, if we are unable to adapt or adjust our products to new technologies, our ability to compete and operate profitably could be significantly impaired. The design, development and manufacturing of IP, broadband, entertainment and communications products are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technology changes. We compete with products and technologies from a number of other companies. Development by others of new or improved products or technologies may make our products obsolete or less competitive. While we believe that our products are based on advanced technologies, our products may become obsolete in the future or we may not be able to develop a commercial market for our products in response to future technology advances and developments. The inability to develop new products or adapt our current products to new technologies could impact our financial condition. Approximately 22% of our total assets are comprised of intangible assets including goodwill, contract rights, customer relationships and other intangible assets which are subject to review on a periodic basis to determine whether an impairment on these assets is required. An impairment would not only greatly diminish our assets, but would also require us to record a significant charge against our earnings. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. At the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, management determined an impairment charge of approximately $3,427,000 existed for the intangible assets of contract rights, customer relationships and other intangible assts primarily attributable to the BDS assets acquired in the January 2001 merger of Clearworks.net, Inc. At the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, management determined an impairment charge of approximately $23,913,000 existed for the intangible assets of contract rights, customer relationships and other intangible assets primarily attributable to the BDS assets acquired in the January 2001 merger of Clearworks.net, Inc. At the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004, management assessed the fair value of the intangible assets and concluded that the goodwill and other intangible assets valuations were at an amount greater than the current carrying and other intangible assets value. Our business relies on our use of proprietary technology. Asserting, defending and maintaining intellectual property rights is difficult and costly and the failure to do so could harm our ability to compete and to fund our operations. We rely, to a significant extent, on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. In the event we become involved in defending or pursuing intellectual property litigation, such action may increase our costs and divert management’s time and attention from our business. In addition to costly litigation and diversion of management’s time, any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to take specific actions, including: · cease selling products that use the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property. We compete with many companies that are larger and possess greater capital resources than we do, and our growth and profitability are dependent on our ability to compete with these entities. We face competition from many entities with significantly greater financial resources, well-established brand names, and larger customer bases. We may become subject to severe price competition for our products and services as companies seek to enter our industry or current competitors attempt to gain market share. We expect competition to intensify in the future and expect significant competition from other companies and technology providers. If we are unable to make or keep our products competitively priced and attain a market share in the markets in which our products compete, our sales may suffer which could impact our financial condition. A system failure could delay or interrupt our ability to provide products or services and could increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Certain parts of our operations are dependent upon our ability to support a complex network infrastructure. Many of our customers are dependent on an uninterrupted supply of services. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations could result in loss of these customers. To date, we have not experienced any significant interruptions or delays which have affected our ability to provide products and services to our clients. Because our headquarters and infrastructure are located in hurricane-prone areas, there is a likelihood that our operations may be effected by hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados or flooding. The occurrence of a natural disaster, operational disruption or other unanticipated problem could cause interruptions in the services we provide and impair our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability. Our industry is highly regulated, and new government regulation could hurt our ability to timely introduce new products and technologies. Our broadband and communications products are regulated by federal, state and local governments. Our customers are generally required to obtain regulatory approvals in connection with providing television services. For example, the cable and satellite television industry is regulated by Congress and the Federal Communications Commission, and various legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration from time to time may affect the way we design our products. New laws or regulations may harm our ability to timely introduce new products and technologies, which could decrease our revenues by shortening the life cycle of a product. Item 