Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant risk factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, expect continuing losses and may never become profitable. We have a history of operating losses. We incurred a net loss of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and as of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $71.9 million. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been derived from upfront and milestone payments earned on licensing and sub-licensing transactions, revenue earned from subcontracts with various parties and royalty revenue. We expect to incur substantial and continuing losses for the foreseeable future as our own product development programs continue and various preclinical and clinical trials commence or continue, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel. The amount of these losses may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors: · the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel, and our other product development efforts; · the timing and cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for our proposed products; · the commercial success and net sales of Elestrin, on which we receive royalties and potentially may receive sales-based milestones; · the timing and cost of obtaining third party reimbursement for our products; and · the progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, joint ventures, licenses and other business combinations or transactions with entities that have businesses or technologies complementary to our business. In order to generate new and significant revenues, we successfully must develop our own proposed products and enter into collaborative agreements with others who successfully can commercialize them. Even if our proposed products and the products we may license or otherwise acquire are introduced commercially, they may never achieve market acceptance and we may not generate additional revenues or achieve profitability in future years. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the near future to fund our operations and we may be unable to raise such funds when needed and on acceptable terms. We currently do not have sufficient resources to obtain regulatory approval of our proposed products or to complete the commercialization of any of our proposed products. We expect the Phase III clinical trial 22 Table of Contents program of LibiGel to require significant resources. Therefore, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations. Although we believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $14.8 million at December 31, 2008 will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months, if we do not raise additional financing or secure another funding source for our clinical trial program prior to the end of our second quarter 2009, we will need to delay or cease new enrollment in our Phase III clinical trial program of LibiGel, however, it is our intention to continue the clinical program for those women already enrolled. The change in clinical trial enrollment may delay the eventual submission of the LibiGel NDA beyond the end of 2010 depending on how long we need to continue this change. Our future capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: · the success, progress, timing and costs of our business development efforts to implement business collaborations, licenses and other business combinations or transactions, including our efforts, to continue to evaluate various strategic alternatives available with respect to our products and our company; · the progress, timing, cost and results of our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel, and our other product development efforts; · patient recruitment and enrollment in our current and future clinical trials, including in particular our Phase III clinical trial program for LibiGel; · the commercial success and net sales of Elestrin; · our ability to license LibiGel or our other products for development and commercialization; · the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews of our proposed products; · the rate of technological advances; · the commercial success of our proposed products; · our general and administrative expenses; · the timing and cost of obtaining third party reimbursement for our products; and · the activities of our competitors. The stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. There have been dramatic fluctuations in the market prices of securities of biopharmaceutical companies such as ours. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and may adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds. Due to such market conditions, as well as the status of our product development programs, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our programs designed to obtain regulatory approval of our proposed products, including most importantly, as mentioned above, our Phase III clinical trial program for 23 Table of Contents LibiGel. As an alternative to raising additional financing, we may choose to sublicense LibiGel, Elestrin (outside the territories already sublicensed) or another product to a third party who may finance a portion or all of the continued development and, if approved, commercialization, sell certain assets or rights we have under our existing license agreements or enter into other business collaborations or combinations, including the possible sale of our company. We may be required to relinquish greater or all rights to our proposed products at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we otherwise would choose. Failure to obtain adequate financing also may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern and cause us to significantly curtail or cease ongoing operations. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we incur debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. The current adverse domestic and worldwide economic conditions have adversely affected our ongoing exploration of strategic alternatives process. General domestic and worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity concerns among other factors. Our company is not immune to these adverse conditions. We believe the current domestic and worldwide economic crisis has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our strategic alternatives process and the results of that process. One of our strategic goals has been, and continues to be, to seek and implement strategic alternatives with respect to our products and our company, including licenses, business collaborations and other business combinations or transactions with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In June 2008, we announced that we engaged Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., an investment banking firm, as our strategic advisor to assist us in our efforts to explore strategic alternatives. Strategic alternatives we may pursue could include, but are not limited to, licenses, partnering or other collaboration agreements, a sale of some or all of our assets, a merger or sale of the entire company, continued execution of our operating plan, or other strategic transaction. While no timetable has been set for the completion of our exploration of strategic alternatives process, we believe that it is likely that the process will take significantly longer than we originally anticipated. We believe this is due, in significant part, to the current challenging capital markets environment and uncertain general domestic and worldwide economic conditions, both of which have reduced companies’ willingness to use their cash and/or stock to acquire other companies and products, especially development stage products that involve risk. We believe based on sales data for male sexual dysfunction products as well as published papers and independent primary market research that the estimated market for an FDA approved FSD product could reach more than $2.0 billion, and that if approved by the FDA, LibiGel could become the first FDA approved treatment specifically indicated for HSDD in menopausal women. However, we expect the Phase III clinical trial program of LibiGel to require significant resources. We also understand the significant risks involved in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and commercializing a product that could be the first product of its kind to reach the market. While we continue in our ongoing efforts to explore strategic alternatives, we are mindful of these risks and the general economic environment which currently exists, both of which we believe has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our strategic alternatives process and the results of that process. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance as to when or if our exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any agreements or transactions, or that, if completed, any agreements or transactions will be successful or on attractive terms. 24 Table of Contents Our proposed products are in the development stages and likely will not be commercially introduced for several years, if at all. Our proposed products are in the development stages and will require further development, preclinical and clinical testing and investment prior to commercialization in the United States and abroad. Other than Elestrin, none of our products have been introduced commercially nor do we expect them to be for several years. Some of our products are not in active development. For example, at this time, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal gel product sublicensed to Solvay is not in active development by Solvay, and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. We cannot assure you that any of our proposed products will: · be successfully developed; · prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; · meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; · demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; · be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; · obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or · be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to commercially manufacture or sell any of our future products, or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of our products. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell any of our products in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we must obtain the approval of the FDA for each product or drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our management’s credibility, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity would be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. Even after obtaining regulatory approval, we may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. The FDA may also require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. To obtain regulatory approval to market our products, costly and lengthy pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials are required, and the results of the studies and trials are highly uncertain. As part of the FDA approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense or the expense of current or potential 25 Table of Contents licensees, clinical trials on humans on each of our proposed products. Pre-clinical studies on animals must be conducted on some of our proposed products. We expect the number of pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials that the FDA will require will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular product. We may need to perform multiple pre-clinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin human clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our products. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in pre-clinical studies on animals, the results in humans may be different. After we have conducted pre-clinical studies in animals, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for use on the target human patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. The data obtained from pre-clinical and human clinical testing are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We face the risk that the results of our clinical trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal or human testing. Adverse or inconclusive human clinical results would prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our products. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: · slow patient enrollment; · timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; · longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or safety; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and · lack of effectiveness of the product being tested. Delays in our clinical trials could allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products and thus can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. Although we successfully have completed and reached agreement with the FDA under the Special Protocol Assessment process for our Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trials for LibiGel, we still may not obtain FDA approval of LibiGel within a reasonable period of time or ever, which would harm our business and likely decrease our stock price. We anticipate that LibiGel, if approved by the FDA, could be a very successful product. However, LibiGel has not been approved for marketing by the FDA and is still subject to risks associated with its clinical development and obtaining regulatory approval. We believe based on agreements with the FDA, including a Special Protocol Assessment received in January 2008, that two Phase III safety and efficacy trials and one year of LibiGel exposure in a Phase III cardiovascular safety study with a four-year follow-up post-NDA filing and potentially post-FDA approval are the essential requirements for submission and, if successful, approval by the FDA of an NDA for LibiGel for the treatment of FSD, specifically, HSDD in menopausal women. The SPA process and agreement affirms that the FDA agrees that the LibiGel Phase III safety and efficacy clinical trial design, clinical endpoints, sample size, planned conduct and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval. Further, it provides assurance that these agreed measures will serve as the basis for regulatory review and the decision by the FDA to approve an NDA for LibiGel. These SPA trials use our validated instruments to measure the clinical endpoints. The January 2008 SPA agreement covers the pivotal Phase III safety and efficacy trials of LibiGel in the 26 Table of Contents treatment of FSD for “surgically” menopausal women. In July 2008, we received another SPA for our LibiGel program in the treatment of FSD, specifically, HSDD in “naturally” menopausal women. The SPA agreements, however, are not guarantees of LibiGel approval by the FDA or approval of any permissible claims about LibiGel. In particular, SPA agreements are not binding on the FDA if previously unrecognized public health concerns later comes to light, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or effectiveness arise, we fail to comply with the protocol agreed upon, or the FDA’s reliance on data, assumptions or information are determined to be wrong. Even after an SPA agreement is finalized, the SPA agreement may be changed by us or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from any study that is the subject of the SPA agreement. In addition, the data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent FDA regulatory approval. Delays in the completion of these clinical trials, which can result from unforeseen issues, FDA interventions, problems with enrolling patients and other reasons, could significantly delay commercial launch and affect our product development costs. Moreover, results from these clinical studies may not be as favorable as the results we obtained in prior, completed studies. We cannot ensure that, even after extensive clinical trials, regulatory approval will ever be obtained for LibiGel. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could adversely affect the market for hormone therapy products and the trading price of our common stock. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products exceed the benefits from the use of those products among healthy postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the NIH released data from its WHI study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by healthy women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin for an average of 5.2 year follow-up among healthy postmenopausal women. Also in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom was also halted. Our products differ from the products used in the WHI study and the primary products observed in the National Cancer Institute and United Kingdom studies. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment. Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Recent reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. There currently are no studies published comparing the safety of our products against other hormone therapies. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms have declined as a result of these published studies. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse 27 Table of Contents affects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to our products, would also adversely affect our business and likely decrease our stock price. If clinical trials for our proposed products are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our proposed products on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales or licenses. We may encounter problems with our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials for our proposed products that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of, or terminate, our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our proposed products and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval or enter into collaborations for, or market or sell, a particular proposed product: · conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; · delay in developing, or our inability to obtain, a clinical dosage form, insufficient supply or deficient quality of our proposed products or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; · negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical study or termination of a clinical program; · serious and/or unexpected product-related side effects experienced by subjects in clinical trials; or · failure of our third-party contractors or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Regulatory authorities, clinical investigators, institutional review boards, data safety monitoring boards and the sites at which our clinical trials are conducted all have the power to stop our clinical trials prior to completion. Our clinical trials for our products may not begin as planned, may need to be restructured, and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. This is particularly true if we no longer have the financial resources to dedicate to our clinical trial program. We entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement Azur for the marketing of Elestrin in the United States as a result of which we are dependent upon Azur for the marketing and sale of our Elestrin product. In December 2008, we entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement with Azur for the marketing of Elestrin in the United States pursuant to which we received an upfront license payment and have the right to receive certain sales-based milestone payments, plus royalties on sales of Elestrin. As a result of this agreement, Elestrin is subject to not only general market acceptance of the product, but also the success of Azur in marketing and selling the product. Sales of Elestrin by our former sublicensee, Nycomed (which acquired Bradley in February 2008), were minimal and did not result in our receipt of any meaningful royalty revenue. We cannot assure you that Azur will be successful in marketing Elestrin or that Azur will remain focused on the commercialization of Elestrin or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreement, especially if Azur does not experience significant Elestrin sales. Any breach by Azur of its obligations under our agreement or a termination of the agreement could adversely affect the success of Elestrin if we are unable to sublicense the product to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the future commercialization of the product ourselves. 28 Table of Contents Elestrin, which is FDA approved, and our other proposed products, if they receive FDA approval, may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The commercial success of our FDA-approved product, Elestrin, and our other proposed products, if they receive the required regulatory approvals, is dependent upon market acceptance by physicians and patients. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including: · the availability of alternative products from competitors; · the price of our products relative to that of our competitors; · the timing of market entry; and · the ability to market our products effectively. Some of these factors are not within our control, especially if we have transferred all of the marketing rights associated with the product, as we have with Elestrin to Azur. Elestrin and our proposed products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. We and our sublicensees depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our proposed products and if these third parties do not successfully manufacture these products our business would be harmed. We have no manufacturing experience or manufacturing capabilities for the production of our proposed products for clinical trials or commercial sale. In order to continue to develop proposed products, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our proposed products following approval, we or our sublicensees must be able to manufacture or contract with third parties to manufacture our products in clinical and commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our products may be complex, difficult to accomplish and difficult to scale-up when large-scale production is required. Manufacture may be subject to delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If supplies of any of our products become unavailable on a timely basis or at all or are contaminated or otherwise lost, clinical trials by us could be seriously delayed. To the extent that we or our sublicensees seek to enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we and such sublicensees will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. Contract manufacturers may breach their manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If third-party manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including: · we and our collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of product candidates that are under development; 29 Table of Contents · we and our collaborators may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our product candidates; and · we and our collaborators may not be able to meet commercial demands for any approved products. We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff. We have employment arrangements in place with both of our two executive officers, but neither of our executive officers is legally bound to remain employed for any specific term. Although we have key man life insurance on our Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen M. Simes, we do not have key man life insurance policies covering our other executive officer or any of our other employees. If key individuals leave BioSante, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our management to assess and our independent registered public accounting firm to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results, financial position and the market price of our common stock. In addition, if one or more material weaknesses is identified in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion or issues an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our common stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry Because our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us, we may not succeed in developing our proposed products and bringing them to market. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than us. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other 30 Table of Contents public and private research organizations are also conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. We cannot assure you that our competitors, some of whom are our development collaborators, will not succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to us, or that these competing technologies and products will not be more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop. Because the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental authorities. For example, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the development of our proposed products and our clinical trials, and if any of our proposed products are approved, the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of NDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected and the market value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We license the technology underlying most of our products and a portion of our CaP technology from third parties and may lose the rights to license them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We license certain of the technology underlying our products from Antares Pharma, Inc., a portion of our CaP technology from the University of California and the Pill Plus from Wake Forest University. We may lose our right to license these technologies if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. Although we intend to use our reasonable best efforts to meet these obligations, if we violate or fail to perform any term or covenant of the license agreements or with respect to the University of California’s license agreement within 60 days after written notice from the University of California, the other party to these agreements may terminate these agreements or certain projects contained in these agreements. The termination of these agreements, however, will not relieve us of our obligation to pay any royalty or license fees owed at the time of termination. Our failure to retain the right to license the technology underlying our proposed products or CaP technology could harm our business and future operating results. For example, if we were to enter into an sublicense agreement with a third party under which we agree to sublicense our hormone therapy technology or CaP technology for a license fee, the termination of the main license agreement with Antares Pharma, Inc., the University of California or Wake Forest University could either, depending upon the terms of the sublicense agreement, cause us to breach our obligations under the sublicense agreement or give the other party a right to terminate that agreement, thereby causing us to lose future revenue generated by the sublicense fees. 31 Table of Contents We have licensed some of our products to third parties and any breach by these parties of their obligations under these sublicense agreements or a termination of these sublicense agreements by these parties could adversely affect the development and marketing of our licensed products. In addition, these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our proposed products. We have licensed our CaP technology for use as a facial line filler to MATC and some of our hormone therapy product to third parties, including Azur, Solvay Pharmaceuticals, B.V., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Pantarhei Bioscience B.V. and PharmaSwiss SA. All of these parties, except for Azur have agreed to be responsible for continued development, regulatory filings and manufacturing and marketing associated with the products. In addition, we may in the future enter into additional similar license agreements. Our products that we have licensed to others are thus subject to not only customary and inevitable uncertainties associated with the drug development process, regulatory approvals and market acceptance of products, but also depend on the respective licensees for timely development, obtaining required regulatory approvals, commercialization and otherwise continued commitment to the products. Our current and future licensees may have different and, sometimes, competing priorities. We cannot assure you that our partners or any future third party to whom we may license our proposed products will remain focused on the development and commercialization of our partnered products or will not otherwise breach the terms of our agreements with them, especially since these third parties also may compete with us with respect to some of our proposed products. For example, at this time, we believe that our estrogen/progestogen combination transdermal hormone therapy gel product licensed to Solvay is not in active development by Solvay, and we do not expect its active development to occur at any time in the near future. As an additional example, in 2005, we were notified that Teva USA had discontinued development of our male testosterone gel, Bio-T-Gel, product and indicated to us a desire to formally terminate the agreement. Although in June 2007, we signed an amendment to the agreement under which we and Teva reinitiated our collaboration on the development of Bio-T-Gel for the U.S. market and Teva withdrew its previous notice of its desire to terminate the agreement and reinitiated funding and development of the product, prior to such time, no third party was developing our Bio-T-Gel. Any future breach of this agreement by Teva or any other breach by our partners or any other third party of their obligations under these agreements or a termination of these agreements by these parties could adversely affect development of the products in these agreements if we are unable to sublicense the proposed products to another party on substantially the same or better terms or continue the development and future commercialization of the proposed products ourselves. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of other reasons: · We do not know whether our licensor’s patent applications will result in issued patents. 32 Table of Contents · Competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us or may claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore we cannot use our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also have our patents reexamined by demonstrating to the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. · We are engaged in the process of developing proposed products. Even if we receive a patent, it may not provide much practical protection. There is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our proposed products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our proposed product. · Litigation also may be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. Intellectual property litigation is costly and may adversely affect our operating results. Such litigation also may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. · We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. We rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. 33 Table of Contents Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: · result in costly litigation; · divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; · cause product development delays; · require us to develop non-infringing technology; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry often have been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our potential gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Like most other stocks, the price of our common stock has decreased significantly recently and likely will continue to be volatile. As a result, we could become subject to class action litigation, which even if without merit, could be costly to defend and could divert the time and attention of our management, which could harm our business and financial condition. During the past 12 months, the closing sale price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $0.81 to a high of $5.85. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization, biopharmaceutical companies, including our company, from time to time experience significant price fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · general stock, market and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, not directly related to our company or our business. · our ability to obtain needed financing; · governmental agency actions, including in particular decisions or actions by the FDA or FDA advisory committee panels with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; 34 Table of Contents · the results of our clinical trials or those of our competitors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by licensors or licensees of our technology; · public concern as to the safety or efficacy of or market acceptance of products developed by us or our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenues; · loss of key management; · common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; and · other potentially negative financial announcements, including delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results, delays in our filings with the SEC or our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report or otherwise in reports we file with or submit to the SEC from time to time could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. We may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock may be delisted which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards, including a $1.00 minimum closing bid price per share requirement, a minimum stockholders’ equity requirement and certain corporate governance standards. Although Nasdaq has suspended the minimum $1.00 closing bid price rule through Friday, April 17, 2009, the rule is scheduled to be reinstated on Monday, April 20, 2009. Our common stock price has traded at or below $1.00 per share in the recent past. If our stock price trades below $1.00 as of April 20, 2009, there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will not take action to enforce its listing requirements. In addition, although we met the minimum $10 million in stockholders’ equity requirement as of December 31, 2008, it is likely that if we do not raise additional financing in the near future, we may not meet the $10 million minimum stockholders’ equity requirement when we file our first quarter 2009 quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, we could apply to list our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market or our common stock could be traded in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board 35 Table of Contents established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred shares that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and · advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will dilute stockholders and could decrease the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2009, we had issued and outstanding 27,042,764 shares of common stock, 391,286 shares of our class C stock and outstanding options and warrants to purchase 5,479,063 additional shares of common stock. The existence of the outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the terms under which we could obtain additional equity capital. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. We may issue additional equity securities which would dilute your share ownership. We may issue additional equity securities to raise capital and through the exercise of options and warrants that are outstanding or may be outstanding. These additional issuances would dilute your share ownership. Risks Relating to our Committed Equity Financing Facility with Kingsbridge The Committed Equity Financing Facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down. In December 2008, we entered into a Committed Equity Financing Facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of 36 Table of Contents two years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock of $1.15 per share; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; continued effectiveness of the registration statement registering the resale of shares of our common stock issued or issuable to Kingsbridge; and the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of 10 trading days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. The CEFF that we entered into with Kingsbridge may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge. In connection with our CEFF with Kingsbridge, we are entitled in certain circumstances to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statement registering the resale of shares of our common stock issued or issuable to Kingsbridge and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under that registration statement. Such circumstances include, for example, if we possess material nonpublic information about our company such that in our good faith judgement it would be detrimental to our company or our stockholders for resales of shares of our common stock to occur pursuant to the resale registration statement. If, however, we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by the agreement, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge (exclusive of shares that Kingsbridge may hold pursuant to exercise of the Kingsbridge warrant) and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. The CEFF that we entered into with Kingsbridge may result in dilution to our stockholders if we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 14 percent from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if we were to issue shares when our stock price is higher. Such issuances will have a dilutive effect and may further decrease our stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 