Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Because our core product is non-standard personal automobile insurance, our business may be adversely affected by negative developments in the conditions in this industry. Approximately 96% of our gross premiums written for 2005 were generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of our concentration in this line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, these developments could have a greater effect on us, compared to more diversified insurers that also sell other types of automobile insurance products. For example, in the late 1990s, the automobile insurance industry experienced severe price competition, rapidly rising medical costs and high levels of fraudulent claims which resulted in a significant deterioration in underwriting profitability. According to the Insurance Information Institute, an insurance industry research 26 Table of Contents organization, the cost of automobile insurance declined in 1998 and 1999. During this same period and in 2000, as indicated in this report, the amount of claims paid by automobile insurers rose sharply, particularly with respect to personal injury claims. The combination of these events adversely impacted our underwriting results and the underwriting results of most of our competitors. Over the past few years, the non-standard personal automobile insurance industry has benefited from a period of improved underwriting profitability. Because of the currently favorable pricing conditions in our industry, competition has increased dramatically as existing insurers are attempting to increase market share by increasing advertising, and some insurers have reduced their rates in certain markets. In addition, several of our competitors have raised additional capital within the past two years in order to support their planned growth and it is possible that new competitors will enter the market. These conditions could cause us to lose market share or have a material adverse effect on our underwriting results due to a reduction in our underwriting margin. Because we write a substantial number of insurance policies in Florida and Tennessee, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in these states. In 2005, approximately 49% and 13% of our gross premiums written were generated from non-standard personal automobile and life insurance policies written in Florida and Tennessee, respectively. Our revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and other conditions in these states. For example, our underwriting results in Florida have been adversely affected by high levels of fraudulent claims and increased price competition. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. Adverse legislative or regulatory developments in Florida or Tennessee, which could include, among other things, reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, restrictions on rate increases or fundamental changes to the design of our insurance products or implementation of the automobile insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against us. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as severe winter weather, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions generally result in higher incidence of automobile accidents and an increase in the number of claims filed as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. Because some of our insureds live near the coastlines of the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico, we have potential exposure to catastrophic losses related to hurricanes and major coastal storms. We currently maintain property catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance, excluding terrorism and acts of war, that provides coverage for losses up to $15 million, less our retention of both 100% of the first $2.0 million of losses, 12.5% of the next $3 million of losses, and 2.5% of the next $10 million of losses covered under this reinsurance arrangement. In the event a major catastrophe were to occur resulting in property losses to us in excess of our coverage, our losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly competitive, which may make it difficult for us to market our core products effectively and profitably. The non-standard personal automobile insurance business is highly competitive. We compete with other insurers that, in most cases, sell through independent agencies. We also compete with insurers that sell insurance policies directly to their customers. We believe that our primary insurance company competition comes not only from national companies or their subsidiaries, such as the Progressive insurance group, the Allstate insurance group, the Infinity insurance group, the State Farm insurance group, the Berkshire Hathaway insurance group (including GEICO) and the Bristol West insurance group, but also from non-standard insurers and independent agents that operate in a specific region or single state in which we operate. 27 Table of Contents Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, and they may offer a broader range of products or offer competing products at lower prices. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by a loss of business to competitors offering similar insurance products at lower prices or having other competitive advantages. Our results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical changes in the personal automobile insurance industry. The personal automobile insurance industry is cyclical in nature. In the past, the industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. For example, we believe that during 2002 and 2003, the underwriting results in the personal automobile insurance industry improved as a result of favorable pricing and competitive conditions that allowed for broad increases in rate levels by insurers. We are now in a period of decreasing top-line growth as existing competitors are attempting to increase or maintain market share by increasing advertising and, in certain cases, lowering rates. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets. Such conditions would cause a further trend downward in the current softening cycle and could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Current ratings of our insurance subsidiaries or any failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain current financial strength ratings could materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing or reinsurance at favorable rates. A.M. Best provides a variety of products and services to the insurance industry and is generally considered to be a leading authority on insurance company ratings and information. Four of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have been assigned a “B (Fair)” rating. A.M. Best assigns 15 ratings to insurance companies, which currently range from “A++ (Superior)” to “F (In Liquidation)”. Our newly acquired property and casualty insurance subsidiary and our two life insurance subsidiaries are not currently rated by A.M. Best. “B (Fair)” is the seventh highest rating issued by A.M. Best. Publications of A.M. Best indicate that the “B (Fair)” rating is assigned to those companies that in A.M. Best’s opinion have a fair ability to meet their current obligations to policyholders, but are financially vulnerable to adverse changes in underwriting and economic conditions. In evaluating a company’s financial and operating performance, A.M. Best reviews the company’s profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of its loss reserves, the adequacy of its surplus, its capital structure, the experience and competence of its management and its market presence. A.M. Best’s ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to potential or current investors in our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our common stock. Financial institutions and reinsurance companies use the A.M. Best insurance ratings to help assess the financial strength and quality of insurance companies. The current ratings of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries or their failure to maintain such ratings may dissuade a financial institution or reinsurance company from conducting business with us or increase our interest or reinsurance costs. See “Business — Ratings”. Our principal shareholder has the ability to control our operations, including the election of our directors. As of March 9, 2006, the William C. Adair, Jr. Trust, over which Ms. Tammy Adair, our President, has sole voting control, beneficially owns approximately 21.3% of our common stock. Ms. Adair, as trustee, has the ability to affect significantly the composition of our board of directors and the approval of any action requiring a shareholder vote, including amendments to our charter or bylaws and approvals of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interests of the trustee and the beneficiaries of the trust may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. 28 Table of Contents As a holding company, we are dependent on the results of operations of our operating subsidiaries and the regulatory and contractual capacity of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. We are a holding company and a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, the principal sources of our funds are dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries. State insurance laws limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends and require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. These restrictions affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us without prior notice to, or approval of, regulatory authorities and the timing of such payments. During 2006, our insurance subsidiaries will be able to pay maximum dividends of $18.1 million to Direct General Corporation without seeking regulatory approval. Dividends from our premium finance subsidiary are limited by the minimum capital requirements in applicable state regulations and by covenants in our loan agreements that require approval of our lenders. There are no other restrictions on payments of dividends from our subsidiaries except for typical state corporation law requirements. Consequently, our ability to repay debts, pay expenses and pay cash dividends to our shareholders may be limited. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources and Uses of Funds” and “Business — Regulatory Environment — Restrictions on Paying Dividends”. We are subject to comprehensive regulation that may restrict our ability to earn profits. Our insurance, agency, premium finance and consumer products subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by the insurance and financial institution departments in the states where our subsidiaries are domiciled and where our subsidiaries sell insurance products, issue policies, finance premiums, handle claims and make payday consumer loans. Certain regulatory restrictions and prior approval requirements may affect our subsidiaries’ ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or may increase our cost and reduce profitability. The failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in actions by regulators or other law enforcement officials, fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to our reputations in the marketplace. We could be subject to individual and class action lawsuits by our insured and other parties for alleged violations of these laws or regulations. In addition, new regulations or legislation may be adopted in the future which could adversely effect our operations, our ability to grow our business in certain states or our ability to maintain our profitability. Supervision and regulation by insurance and financial institution departments extend, among other things, to: Required Licensing. We operate under licenses issued by various state insurance, consumer credit and banking authorities. These licenses govern, among other things, the types of insurance coverages, agency and claims services, consumer loan and premium finance products that we may offer consumers in these states. Such licenses typically are issued only after we file an appropriate application and satisfy prescribed criteria. We must apply for and obtain the appropriate new licenses before we can implement any plan to expand into a new state or offer a new line of insurance or other new product that requires separate licensing. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting such new license, our ability to enter new markets quickly or offer new products we believe will be profitable can be substantially impaired. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Required Licensing.” Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. We operate as an insurance holding company system and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries conduct business. Our insurance subsidiaries are organized and domiciled or commercially domiciled under the insurance statutes of Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee. The insurance laws in these states provide that all transactions among members of an insurance holding company system must be fair and reasonable. Transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and other members of our holding company system generally must be disclosed to the state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator generally is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to 29 Table of Contents approve or delay approval of such a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Insurance Holding Company Regulation.” Regulation of Premium Rates and Approval of Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which our insurance subsidiaries operate require insurance companies to file premium rate schedules and insurance policy forms for review and approval. State insurance regulators have broad discretion in judging whether our rates are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. The speed at which we can change our rates in response to competition or to increasing costs depends, in part, on the method by which the applicable state’s rating laws are administered. Generally, state insurance regulators have the authority to disapprove our requested rates. Thus, if as permitted in some states, we begin using new rates before they are approved, we may be required to issue premium refunds or credits to our policyholders if the new rates are ultimately deemed excessive or unfair and disapproved by the applicable state regulator. In addition, in some states, there has been some pressure in past years to reduce premium rates for automobile and other personal insurance or to limit how often an insurer may request increases for such rates. In states where such pressure is applied, our ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state can be adversely affected. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Rates and Policy Forms.” Investment Restrictions. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and that limit the amount of investments in certain categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Investment Regulation.” Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to cancel or not renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing from one or more lines of business in the state, except pursuant to a plan approved by the state insurance department. The state insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption. To date, none of these restrictions has had an impact on our operations or strategic planning in the states in which we operate. However, these laws and regulations that limit cancellations and non-renewals and that subject business withdrawals to prior approval restrictions could limit our ability to exit unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products in the future. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal.” Other Regulations. We must also comply with regulations involving, among other things: • the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues; • investment restrictions; • the use of credit history in underwriting and rating; • the payment of dividends; • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • the involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, assessments and other governmental charges; • reporting to state regulators with respect to financial condition; • periodic reporting, corporate governance and other compliance requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other federal laws and regulations applicable to publicly traded companies; and • rules and regulations of the Nasdaq National Market, on which our common stock is listed for trading. 30 Table of Contents In addition, our premium finance and payday consumer loan businesses are subject to the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and similar state statutes, and in states where premium finance statutes have not been enacted, we generally are subject to state usury laws that are applicable to consumer loans. See “Business — Regulatory Environment”. The outcome of recent litigation and insurance regulatory investigations may adversely impact our business. In October 2004, the New York State Attorney General brought suit against Marsh & McClennan Companies, Inc. alleging, among other things, that the firm manipulated the insurance market through specified conduct relating to bid-rigging and agent/broker compensation practices. We also understand that other states’ attorneys general and insurance regulators have initiated similar investigations. In addition, the NAIC has recently proposed new rules requiring brokers to obtain written consent from their clients prior to receiving compensation from an insurance carrier. Because we generally sell our products directly to our customers without the use of any independent agents or brokers, we do not believe that the issues raised by this suit, these investigations or the NAIC’s proposed rule change are applicable to us. However, we cannot be certain what ultimate effect they, as well as any increased regulatory oversight, will have on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus our business. Regulation may become more extensive in the future, which may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that states will not make existing insurance laws and regulations more restrictive in the future or enact new restrictive laws. In such events, we may seek to reduce our writings in, or to withdraw entirely from, these states. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. As we develop and introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional federal and state regulations. In addition, future legislation or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations and may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. States may also seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. Our business is also subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could generate adverse publicity or cause us to incur substantial expenditures or modify the way we conduct our business. Our insurance, premium finance and consumer products subsidiaries are subject to capital requirements, and our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital standards (which we refer to in this report as RBC standards) and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their states of domicile. The RBC standards, based upon the RBC Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (which we refer to in this report as the NAIC) require our insurance subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to the state departments of insurance and the NAIC. Our premium finance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements imposed under the laws of some of the states in which they conduct business. Our consumer products subsidiary is subject to minimum capital requirements in some of the states in which it conducts or intends to conduct its payday loan business. In some states the minimum capital is based on the number of locations within the state that the payday loan product is offered to customers. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject our insurance, premium finance or consumer products subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, state supervision or even liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. As of December 31, 2005, each of our insurance subsidiaries maintained an RBC level that is in excess of an amount that would require any corrective actions on our part and our premium finance and consumer products subsidiaries were in compliance with the minimum capital requirements of the applicable state regulations. See “Business — Regulatory Environment”. 31 Table of Contents New pricing, claim, coverage and financing issues and class action litigation are continually emerging in the automobile insurance industry, and these new issues could adversely impact our revenues or our methods of doing business. As automobile insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages, business practices and premium financing plans may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on our business by changing the way we price our products, by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, or by increasing the size of claims. Recent examples of some emerging issues include: • concerns over the use of an applicant’s credit score and zip code as a factor in making risk selections and pricing decisions; • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting automobile insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling practices, such as the permitted use of aftermarket (non-original equipment manufacturer) parts, total loss evaluation methodology and the alleged diminution in value to insureds’ vehicles involved in accidents; • a relatively new trend of plaintiffs targeting insurers, including automobile insurers, in purported class action litigation which seek to recharacterize installment fees and other allowed charges related to insurers’ installment billing programs as interest that violates state usury laws or other interest rate restrictions; and • attempts by plaintiffs to initiate purported class action litigation targeting premium finance operations relating to unearned interest rebates and the collection of service and finance charges. The effects and costs of these and other unforeseen emerging issues could negatively affect our revenues, income or our methods of business. Our assumed reinsurance arrangements may be deemed to be the unauthorized business of insurance. Our agency subsidiaries sell non-standard automobile insurance for State National Specialty Insurance Company in North Carolina and we also service, finance and administer claims related to this business. One of our insurance subsidiaries reinsures a 100% quota share percentage of State National’s physical damage business in North Carolina. In January 2003, we began assuming a 100% quota share percentage of the non-standard personal automobile liability and physical damage business in Texas underwritten by Old American County Mutual Fire Insurance Company, an unaffiliated insurance company, for which we are responsible for the sales, service, and claims administration related to such business. We believe that these arrangements comply with applicable law and we are not aware of any pending regulatory or legislative action that could affect these arrangements. However, we can provide no assurance that the state legislatures or insurance regulators of North Carolina and Texas will continue to permit these types of assumed reinsurance arrangements whereby all or substantially all of the insurance risk is transferred to a single assuming reinsurer that is not a licensed insurer in that state. If not, then insurance regulators in these states could construe our assumed reinsurance arrangements as the conduct of the unauthorized business of insurance by us, or the aiding and abetting by the policy issuing companies of the unauthorized business of insurance. Any such adverse regulatory decision may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our largely fixed cost structure would work to our disadvantage if our sales volume were to decline significantly. Because of our emphasis on the use of employee-agents, our cost of acquiring business is largely fixed. In times of increasing sales volume, our acquisition cost per policy decreases, improving our expense and combined ratios, which we believe is one of the significant advantages of our business model. However, in times of declining sales volume, the opposite would occur. A decline in sales volume could decrease our profitability, cause us to close some of our neighborhood sales offices or lay-off employee-agents to manage our expenses. 32 Table of Contents Our inability to refinance our current lines of credit or obtain additional financing could have an adverse effect on our premium finance revenue. Through our premium finance subsidiary, we finance almost all of the insurance policies we sell. Our working capital needs are substantially dependent on bank lines of credit that include covenants requiring us to pass specified financial tests and to refrain from certain kinds of actions. Such actions include incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; granting mortgages or liens on our and certain of our subsidiaries’ assets; selling our premium finance subsidiary receivables; merging into, consolidating with, or acquiring the assets of another business corporation outside defined limitations; disposing of all or a substantial portion of our assets; making loans or investments other than to our subsidiaries; or entering into a new line of business not related to insurance, financial and related services. In the event we fail to meet our covenants or are unable to refinance, replace or increase our bank line of credit on economically feasible terms, our income and the marketability of our insurance products could be adversely affected. An alternative to financing our policies through our premium finance subsidiary would be to finance or installment bill the policies through our insurance subsidiaries, which would eliminate the requirement for outside working capital. However, certain regulatory restrictions may make it more difficult to finance other insurance products which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our losses and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserves, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We record reserve liabilities for the estimated payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported claims. The amount of reserves is based on historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process. This uncertainty arises from a number of factors, including the difficulty in predicting the rate of inflation and the rate and direction of changes in trends, ongoing interpretation of insurance policy provisions by courts, inconsistent decisions in lawsuits regarding coverage and expanded theories of liability. In addition, ongoing changes in claims settlement practices can lead to changes in loss payment patterns, which are used to estimate reserve levels. If our reserves prove to be inadequate, we would be required to increase them and would charge the entire amount of such increase to our earnings in the period in which the deficiency is recognized. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary, and will over time continue to be necessary, to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and policy expenses, and these revisions can cause our results to fluctuate. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we experienced adverse reserve development that increased our losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred by $6.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we experienced adverse reserve development that increased our losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred by $6.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2003, our reserves for prior years developed favorably, which resulted in reductions in losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred of $0.1 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Expenses — Insurance Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” for a discussion of the reasons for these changes. The historic development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the development of these amounts. Consequently, ultimate losses could materially exceed loss reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Business — Regulatory Environment”. We are party to litigation, which, if decided adversely to us, could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are named as a defendant in various legal actions arising out of claims made in connection with our insurance policies, our premium finance agreements, other contracts we have entered into, our relationships with our employees and other matters. These legal actions include two purported class action lawsuits: • one alleges we improperly cancelled insurance policies; and • one alleges we charged and collected unlawful service and finance charges with respect to the financing of purported automobile club memberships in violation of Florida law. 33 Table of Contents In addition, one of our subsidiary companies, Direct General Insurance Company (“DGIC”), is a defendant to a lawsuit in which it is alleged that our chairman and chief executive officer made certain misrepresentations and breached a contract in connection with a health plan being marketed by the plaintiffs. We and our chairman and chief executive officer also have been named as defendants to a lawsuit in which it is alleged that our chairman and chief executive officer entered into certain agreements and made certain representations on our behalf in connection with certain employer health benefit plans which induced plaintiff to become and remain the third party administrator for the employer health benefit plans and to incur obligations and responsibilities as a result. We, and certain of our officers and directors, have been named as defendants in a purported securities fraud class action lawsuit and two purported shareholder derivative class actions filed during the first quarter of 2005. We intend to vigorously defend each of these lawsuits. However, all litigation is unpredictable and the ultimate outcome of these cases is uncertain. These matters are in their early discovery stages, and thus we are unable to predict the likelihood or range of our potential liability or the potential financial impact on our future operations, if we are not able to successfully defend or settle these cases. Also, we are unable to predict the effect that these pending lawsuits, or similar lawsuits filed against us in the future, may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Legal Proceedings”. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to grow, we will need to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel, but we may not be able to do so. Our ability to recruit and retain such personnel will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations and prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. See “Management — Directors and Executive Officers”. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2005, 99.5% of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in debt securities, primarily in liquid state, municipal, corporate and federal government bonds and 0.5% was invested in other short-term investments. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the fair value of, fixed income securities. Unrealized gains and losses on debt securities are recognized in other comprehensive income and increase or decrease our shareholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of our investment portfolio included pre-tax net unrealized losses of $7.1 million. Comparatively, the fair value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2004, approximated the value at amortized cost. Interest rates in the United States while still relatively low compared to historical levels, have been steadily increasing since May 2004. Based upon data compiled from Bloomberg, L.P., the pretax yield on U.S. Treasury securities with a five-year maturity has increased from approximately 3.3% at December 31, 2003 to approximately 4.4% at December 31, 2005. An increase in interest rates could reduce the fair value of our investments in debt securities. As of December 31, 2005, the impact of an immediate 100 basis point increase in market interest rates on our debt securities portfolio would have resulted in an estimated decrease in fair value of 4.4% or approximately $17.2 million. In addition, defaults by third parties who fail to pay or perform obligations could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains and could result in investment losses to our portfolio. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments”. 34 Table of Contents We may not be successful in reducing our risk and increasing our underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to reduce our underwriting risk and increase our underwriting capacity, we transfer portions of our insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts. Historically, we have ceded a portion of our non-standard automobile insurance premiums and losses to unaffiliated reinsurers in accordance with these contracts. However, we have not ceded any portion of our life insurance premiums and losses to reinsurers since the life premium volume is relatively low. Ceded premiums written were equal to 11.6%, 15.0% and 32.2% of our gross premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection is subject to changing market conditions, which are outside of our control. In order for these contracts to qualify for reinsurance accounting and thereby provide the additional underwriting capacity that we desire, the reinsurer generally must assume significant risk and have a reasonable possibility of a significant loss. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent we transfer, or “cede,” risk to the reinsurer, we remain ultimately liable to the policyholder on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. We are subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of our reinsurers. We are also subject to the risk that our reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay our claims. As a result, we may not recover claims made to our reinsurers in a timely manner, if at all. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of $19.4 million of unsecured reinsurance recoverables, which represented 8.2% of our total shareholders’ equity, and our largest unsecured recoverable from a single reinsurer was $8.7 million, which represented 3.7% of our total shareholders’ equity. In addition, if insurance departments deem that under our existing or future reinsurance contracts the reinsurer does not assume significant risk and has a reasonable possibility of significant loss, we may not be able to increase our ability to write business based on this reinsurance. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we have reduced our use of reinsurance, we will retain more risk, which could result in losses. We historically used quota share reinsurance primarily to increase our underwriting capacity and to reduce our exposure to losses. Quota share reinsurance refers to a form of pro rata reinsurance arrangement pursuant to which the reinsurer participates in a specified percentage of the premiums and losses on every risk that comes within the scope of the reinsurance agreement. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Reinsurance” and “Business — Reinsurance”. For policies issued in 2006, we have eliminated our use of quota share reinsurance and have begun to retain all the risk on our policies written. Thus, we will retain and earn more of the premiums we write, but also retain more of the related losses. Eliminating our use of quota share reinsurance has increased our risk and exposure to such losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to support our direct marketing operations, as well as to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments, support premium financing activities, and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. We have a highly trained staff that is committed to the continual development and maintenance of these systems. However, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or such third party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business. See “Business — Technology”. 35 Table of Contents We maintain insurance on our real property and other physical assets. This insurance will not compensate us for losses that may occur due to disruptions in service as a result of a computer, data processing or telecommunication systems failure that is unrelated to covered property damage, nor will such insurance necessarily compensate us for all losses resulting from covered events. We maintain redundant systems or facilities for our principal information services to help maintain functionality and reduce the risk of significant interruptions of our operations. We may have difficulties in managing our expansion into new markets, and we may not be successful in identifying agency acquisition candidates or integrating their operations. Our future growth plans include expanding into new states by acquiring the business and assets of local agencies, opening new sales offices, introducing additional insurance products, and retaining more of our insurance risk by reducing our use of reinsurance. Our future growth will face risks, including risks associated with obtaining necessary licenses, the proper design and pricing of our products, our ability to identify, hire and train new claims and sales employees and our ability to identify agency acquisition candidates or, if acquired, to integrate their operations. In addition, we may acquire business in states in which market and other conditions may not be favorable to us. For example, we commenced writing business in Florida in 1998 through the acquisition of the business and assets of a 64 office agency, and continued our expansion into Florida in 1999 by arranging to distribute our policies through a 42 office independent insurance agency, the assets and business of which we acquired in 2003. Our entrance into the Florida market was at the beginning of a period of significant deterioration of results due largely to increased levels of state-wide fraud in Florida’s required personal injury protection coverage that was further compounded by a period of increased price competition. Accordingly, from 1998 to 2000, our overall loss ratio increased approximately 24 points due to the results of our Florida business. Our inability to identify and acquire agency acquisition candidates could hinder our growth by slowing down our ability to expand into new states. If we do acquire additional agencies, we could suffer increased costs, disruption of our business and distraction of our management if we are unable to integrate the acquired agencies into our operations smoothly. Our expansion will also continue to place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our plans to introduce new insurance and ancillary products may prove unsuccessful or subject us to greater liability than anticipated. We commenced selling motorcycle coverage in Tennessee in early 2006 and are exploring the possibility of offering additional insurance products, such as renters’, homeowners’ (including mobile homeowners’), boat and personal watercraft policies. These additional insurance products may either be underwritten by unaffiliated insurers from which we receive a commission or underwritten by us. We will assess the underwriting risk with respect to these products and may cede some portion of the risk to unaffiliated reinsurers from which we would receive a ceding commission. Since we have no experience in providing many of the insurance products discussed above, our attempt to enter these markets may prove unsuccessful. In order to succeed in these new ventures, we may need to, among other things, establish operating procedures, attract and retain qualified employees with experience in handling these products, install management information and other systems relevant to supporting these products and complete other tasks necessary to conduct our intended business activities. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in accomplishing the tasks that will be necessary to make these new products successful. We may also encounter unforeseen situations that might lead to delays in providing the products. In addition, we may retain all or some portion of the underwriting risk related to the new insurance products we may offer. These products may subject us to greater liability than we currently anticipate. 36 Table of Contents The frequent characterization of payday consumer lending by public perception, certain consumer advocacy groups and some media reports as being predatory or abusive to the consumer could negatively affect our stock price, as well as our overall results of operations. Consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports have recently advocated for governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict certain types of payday consumer lending. Typically these consumer groups and media reports focus on lenders that charge consumers interest rates and fees that are higher than the rates and fees that many credit card issuers charge their more creditworthy consumers. These types of payday loans are frequently characterized by certain consumer advocacy groups and some media reports as predatory or abusive toward small loan consumers. If the general public were to accept this negative characterization of certain payday consumer loans and conclude that the loans we provide to our customers under our Direct Cash Advance program fit this negative characterization, then such adverse publicity could affect the attitude of our investors and/or our customers toward this product and possibly reduce the demand for our stock and/or decrease our potential customer base. A reduction in the demand for our stock could have a negative affect on our stock prices, and our overall results of operations could be negatively affected if our potential customer base were to decrease. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 