ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, the Power Industry, and Our Business. We have a limited operating history and have only engaged in start-up and development activities. We are in the initial stages of developing our oil and natural gas reserves. We have recently transitioned from an extended well testing program into commercial production in our Corvina field and have begun producing and selling oil under an EWT program in our Albacora field. We are also subject to all of the risks inherent in attempting to expand a relatively new business venture. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the possible inability to profitably operate our existing properties or properties to be acquired in the future, our possible inability to fully fund the development requirements of such properties and our possible inability to acquire additional properties that will have a positive effect on our operations. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve a level of profitability that will provide a return on invested capital or that will result in an increase in the market value of our securities. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that because of these factors and other general business risks noted throughout these “Risk Factors,” we may, in particular, not be able to profitably execute our plan of operation. In fields we have not placed into commercial production, we must comply with Peruvian legal and regulatory requirements to be able to produce and sell oil after the expiration of production testing or approved extended well testing. If we do not obtain approval to continue our well testing on wells producing for more than six months, we would be required to suspend production from such wells and we would experience an interruption in production that would negatively impact the revenues and cash flow associated with those wells. Under new legislation regulating well testing in Peru, all new wells may be placed on production testing for up to six months. If we need additional time for testing a new well, we must submit a request for the well to enter into an EWT period, together with technical justification for such need and duration, to the DGH, the agency of the Ministry of Energy and Mines responsible for regulating the optimum development of oil and gas fields. After the initial six-month period or before an approved EWT period expires, we will be required to have the necessary gas and water reinjection equipment in place to continue producing the well according to existing environmental regulations. We are subject to this legislation in our Albacora field and any new fields we develop prior to placing them in commercial production. As of December 31, 2010, we were producing oil from the A-14XD well in the Albacora field under extended well testing and gas flaring permits. The permits for the A-14XD well expired late-January 2011, and our application for new extended well testing and gas flaring permits to continue production from this well were denied and the well remains shut-in. Since we did not receive extended well testing permits on the well in Albacora, we will experience an interruption in production that will negatively impact any revenue and cash flow associated with this well until the applicable requirements are satisfied for commercial production in Albacora, which is anticipated to be towards year end 2011. No assurance can be given that DGH or the Ministry of Energy and Mines will grant approval of any future extended well testing and gas flaring permits requested by us. Under the new well testing regulations, our current view is that we may be able to test any new wells in Albacora or any other field for at least six months. Testing of these wells beyond the initial six month period will require application to the Ministry of Energy and Mines, which may not grant approval. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of reserves shown in the Annual Report. In order to prepare our reserve estimates, our independent petroleum engineer must project production rates and timing of development expenditures as well as analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates, and those variances may be material. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum engineer may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 11 Table of Contents One should not assume that the net present value of our proved reserves prepared in accordance with the Commission’s guidelines referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil reserves. We base the net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month during the 12-month calendar year and year-end costs. Actual future prices, costs, taxes and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no duty to update this information and do not intend to update this information. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. There can be no assurance that all of these reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. We own rights to oil and gas properties that have limited or no development. There are no guarantees that our properties will be developed profitably or that the potential oil and gas resources on the property will produce as expected if they are developed. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. We have prepared estimates of our natural gas and oil reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards. However, the estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled, or the actual results may not be as estimated. We may not have or be able to obtain the capital we need to develop these proved reserves. We have not been profitable since we commenced operations and have historically had significant working capital deficits. To date we have had limited revenue and limited earnings from operations. Though we currently have a working capital surplus, the sources of our working capital surplus have generally been equity and debt financings rather than revenue from operations and we may incur working capital deficits in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be profitable in the future or that we will be able to generate cash from operations or financings to fund working capital deficits. We require additional financing for the exploration and development of our foreign oil and gas properties and the construction of our proposed power generation facility, pipeline and gas processing facility. Since becoming a public company on September 10, 2004, we have funded our operations with the net proceeds of (i) approximately $288 million in various private and public offerings of our common stock, (ii) $186.4 million in convertible debt financing, including $170.9 million of convertible debt financing sold in a private offering and $15.5 million in convertible debt financing from the International Finance Corporation (“IFC”) that was converted into approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock in May 2008, and (iii) $40.0 million in a credit facility with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch (“Credit Suisse”). We have recently begun to generate revenues from operations. With these funds we have begun to implement our plans to develop our existing oil and gas properties, but we will need significant additional financing to fully implement our plan of operation. As we continue to execute our business plan and expand our operations, our cash commitments increase and the likelihood of our seeking additional financing, either through the equity markets, debt financing or a combination of both, will increase over the next six months. If we are unable to timely obtain adequate funds to finance our exploration and development, our ability to develop our oil and natural gas reserves may be limited or substantially delayed. Such limitations or delays could result in the potential loss of our oil and gas properties if we were unable to meet our obligations under the license agreements, which could, in turn, limit our ability to repay our debts. Inability to timely obtain funds also could cause us to delay, scale back or abandon our plans for construction of our power generation facility, pipelines and gas processing facility. Future amounts required to fund our foreign activities may be obtained through additional equity and debt financing, joint venture arrangements, the sale of oil and gas interests, and/or future cash flows from operations. However, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. The exact nature and terms of such funding sources are unknown at this time, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain such funding or have adequate funding available to finance our future operations. Any failure to meet our debt obligations or the occurrence of a continuing default under our debt facility would adversely affect our business and financial condition. On January 27, 2011, we and our subsidiaries, Empresa Eléctrica Nueva Esperanza S.R.L. and BPZ Exploración & Producción S.R.L., entered into a Credit Agreement with Credit Suisse, as lender and administrative agent, dated January 27, 2011, wherein Credit Suisse agreed to provide a $40 million secured debt financing to our power generation subsidiary, Empresa Eléctrica Nueva Esperanza S.R.L., and we and our subsidiary BPZ E&P agreed to unconditionally guarantee the debt facility on an unsecured basis. 12 Table of Contents The debt facility is secured, in part, by three LM6000 gas-fired packaged power units that were purchased from GE Packaged Power Inc. and GE International Inc. Sucursal de Perú, through its power generation subsidiary, Empresa Eléctrica Nueva Esperanza S.R.L., in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Turbine Purchase Agreement, as subsequently amended (the “Turbine Purchase Agreement”). The debt facility is also secured by certain other equipment and property pledged in favor of Credit Suisse and Credit Suisse International. The debt facility provides for events of default customary for agreements of this type, including, among other things: · payment breaches under any of the finance documents; · representation and warranty breaches; · any default, early amortization event or similar event occurring with respect to one or more debt facilities in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $3,000,000, if the effect is to accelerate the maturity thereof; · failure to comply with obligations under the finance documents; · application for the appointment of a receiver by the borrower or any guarantor; · making a general assignment for the benefit of creditors by the borrower or any guarantor; · insolvencies or filing of bankruptcy by the borrower or any guarantor; · certain monetary and non-monetary judgments, orders, decrees or awards against the borrower, or any guarantor and any of their respective subsidiaries; · suspension, revocation or termination of any debt facility financing or security documents with Credit Suisse or certain key agreements; · change in control; and · failure to perform Empresa Eléctrica Nueva Esperanza S.R.L.’s obligations under the Turbine Purchase Agreement. If an event of default occurs, Credit Suisse shall, upon the request of the majority lenders, or may, by notice to the borrower, (i) immediately terminate the lending commitments; and/or (ii) declare all or part of the principal amount of the loans, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable, without demand; provided that, all lending commitments shall automatically terminate and all amounts due and payable on any loan will automatically become immediately due and payable without notice if the borrower or any guarantor and any of their respective subsidiaries appoint a receiver, liquidator or trustee, make a general assignment for the benefit of their creditors, become insolvent, bankrupt, liquidate, or are subject to certain monetary judgments exceeding in the aggregate, $3,000,000; and/or (iii) liquidate the security collateral and apply the proceeds thereof to pay the loans. The debt facility matures on July 27, 2013, with principal repayment due in equal quarterly installments of $8 million commencing on July 27, 2012. The debt facility bears interest at three month LIBOR plus 7.0%. The interest is due and payable every three month period after the commencement of the loan. The debt facility contains an arranger fee payable to Credit Suisse International. The arranger fee is based on a percentage of the principal amount and the performance of the price of crude oil (Brent) from closing date to repayment date. The performance portion of the arranger fee is subject to a specified maximum amount. In addition, the debt facility provides for a mandatory prepayment of the loans if debt to finance our gas-to-power project is incurred or issued by Empresa Eléctrica Nueva Esperanza S.R.L., or any guarantor and any of their respective subsidiaries. We may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment under the debt facility. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings, we may be required to arrange new financing or sell a portion of our assets. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to meet our current and future debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance the debt, sell assets or sell shares of common stock on terms that we do not find attractive, if it can be done at all. Demand for oil and natural gas is highly volatile. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations as well as our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments to implement our business plan. Any revenues, cash flow, profitability and future rate of growth we achieve will be greatly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and gas. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also expected to be dependent on oil and gas prices. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile and are likely to be volatile again in the future. For example, oil and natural gas prices increased to historical highs in 2008 and then declined significantly over the last two quarters of 2008. These prices will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Oil and natural gas are commodities and their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. Those factors include: · international political conditions (including wars and civil unrest, such as the recent unrest in the Middle East); · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and other actions; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · overall economic conditions. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, if any. A continuation of low or a further decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and borrowing capacity, and may require a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. While our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and gas prices increase significantly, exploration and production costs and acquisition costs for additional properties and reserves may also increase. We do not enter into hedging arrangements or use derivative financial instruments such as crude oil forward and swap contracts to hedge our risk associated with fluctuations in commodity prices. Recent changes in the financial and credit market may impact economic growth, and combined with the recent volatility of oil and natural gas prices, may also affect our ability to obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our proposed credit facilities. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Accordingly, the equity capital markets have become exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant asset write offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain debt or equity capital funding. Due to these and possibly other factors, we cannot be certain funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to implement our exploratory and development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our future operating revenue is dependent upon the performance of our properties. Our future operating revenue depends upon our ability to profitably operate our existing properties by drilling and completing wells that produce commercial quantities of oil and gas and our ability to expand our operations through the successful implementation of our plans to explore, acquire and develop additional properties. The successful development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact. No assurance can be given that we can produce sufficient revenue to operate our existing properties or acquire additional oil and gas producing properties and leases. We may not discover or successfully produce any recoverable reserves in the future, or we may not be able to make a profit from the reserves that we may discover. In addition, we regularly bring wells on or offline depending on technical performance and, if applicable, testing period requirements. In the event that we are unable to produce sufficient operating revenue to fund our future operations, we will be forced to seek additional, third-party funding, if such funding can be obtained. Such options would possibly include debt financing, sale of equity interests in the Company, joint venture arrangements, or the sale of oil and gas interests. If we are unable to secure such financing on a timely basis, we could be required to delay or scale back our operations. If such unavailability of funds continued for an extended period of time, this could result in the termination of our operations and the loss of an investor’s entire investment. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that may prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our exploration and production activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including weather, the drilling of dry holes, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well will not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, including geological, regulatory and market-related factors can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs and surface cratering; · uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; · natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons and other adverse weather conditions; · pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; · casing collapses; · mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; or · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. Experiencing any of these operating risks could lead to problems with any well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, which could adversely affect any drilling operations we may commence. Affected drilling operations could further lead to substantial losses as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory requirements, investigations and penalties; · suspension of our operations; or 15 Table of Contents · repairs to resume operations. If any of these risks occur, we may have to curtail or suspend any drilling or production operations and we could have our sales of oil interrupted or suspended, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operations and ability to execute our business plan. We conduct offshore exploration, exploitation and production operations off the coast of northwest Peru, all of which are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment. Such risks include collisions, allisions, groundings and damage or loss from adverse weather conditions or interference from commercial or artesian fishing activities. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities, tankers and barges, as well as interrupt operations. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. Disruption of services provided by our barges and tankers could temporarily impair our operations and delay delivery of our oil to be sold. We depend on our deck barges BPZ-01 and BPZ-02 to act as tender support vessels for our offshore drilling operations in our Corvina and Albacora fields in Block Z-1. In addition, we have two barges under capital lease to use in support of our offshore oil production operations. One barge is used as a floating production, storage and offloading facility and the other is currently being used as a floating storage and offloading facility. In addition, we have time chartered a double hull tank vessel to transport crude oil from our offshore production and storage facilities in the Corvina and Albacora fields to the Talara refinery approximately 70 miles south of the platform where the oil is sold at current market prices under sales contracts with the Peruvian national oil company, Petroperu. Any disruption or delay of the services to be provided by our barges or tanker because of adverse weather conditions, accidents, mechanical failures, insufficient personnel or other events could temporarily impair our operations, delay implementation of our business plan, and increase our costs. Future oil and natural gas declines or unsuccessful exploration efforts may result in significant charges or a write-down of our asset carrying values. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our investments in oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, oil and gas lease acquisition costs and intangible drilling costs associated with exploration efforts that result in the discovery of proved reserves and costs associated with development drilling, whether or not successful, are capitalized when incurred. Certain costs of exploratory wells are capitalized pending determinations that proved reserves have been discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed undiscounted future net cash flows, we must write down the costs of each such field to our estimate of its fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or natural gas prices or unsuccessful exploration efforts could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs. We evaluate impairment of our proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. In addition, write-downs would occur if we were to experience sufficient downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or the present value of estimated future net revenues. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties cannot be reversed at a later date even if oil or natural gas prices increase. Our management team has limited experience in the power generation business and we need additional funding to construct power generation and pipelines. Our plan of operation includes constructing power generation and pipelines in Peru, and in the future, potentially Ecuador. However, the experience of our management team has primarily been in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and we have limited experience in the power generation business. We have recently hired a Director of Gas-to-Power and Project Manager. However, we continue relying on consultants and outside engineering and technical firms to provide the expertise to plan and execute the power generation aspects of our strategy and we have not yet hired all necessary full-time employees to manage this line of business. If we do not have sufficient funds or if we are unable to successfully find partners to participate in our gas-to-power project, we will need to find alternative sources of funding for the construction of the power generation, which may not be available when needed or available on favorable terms. 16 Table of Contents Construction and operation of power generation and pipelines involve significant risks and delays that cannot always be covered by insurance or contractual protections. The construction of power generation and pipelines involve many risks, including: · supply interruptions; · work stoppages; · labor disputes; · social unrest; · inability to negotiate acceptable construction, supply or other contracts; · inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; · weather interferences; · unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems; · unanticipated cost overruns; · possible delays in the acquisition of necessary gas turbines; · possible delays in transporting the necessary equipment to our planned facility in Northern Peru; · possible delays in connection with power plant construction; · possible delays or difficulties in completing financing arrangements for the gas-to-power project; and · possible difficulties or delays with respect to any necessary Peruvian regulatory compliance. The ongoing construction and future operation of these facilities involve all of the risks described above, in addition to risks relating to the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and performances below expected levels of output or efficiency. We intend to maintain commercially reasonable levels of insurance where such insurance is available and cost-effective, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels. However, the coverage or proceeds of any such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. Any of these risks could cause us to operate below expected capacity levels, which in turn could result in lost revenues, increased expenses and higher costs. The success of our gas-to-power project depends, in part, on the existence and growth of markets for natural gas and electricity in Peru. Peru has a relatively well-developed and stable market for electricity. Peru relies on hydroelectric generating capacity for a significant portion of their power demand. Hydroelectric plants are much less expensive to operate than plants that utilize natural gas, but they are subject to variable output based on rainfall and reservoir levels. The majority of the non-hydroelectric or thermal power capacity in Peru consists of generating plants that utilize diesel or fuel oil, which are significantly more costly than natural gas at this time. Peru has natural gas reserves and production, but does not have a well-developed natural gas infrastructure, particularly in northwest Peru where we operate. Our immediate business plan relies on the continued stability of the power market in Peru. We currently do not expect to complete our power plant until 2012. Our assessment of the future power market and demand in Peru could be inaccurate. We are subject to the following risks that: · relatively more favorable business conditions for hydroelectric plants, a material reduction in power demand or other competitive issues may adversely affect the demand and prices for the electricity that we expect to produce by the time the power plant is completed; · our lifting costs could exceed the minimum wholesale power prices available, making the sale of our gas uneconomical; · potential disruptions or changes to regulations of the natural gas or power markets in these countries could occur by the time our power plant is completed, or we may not receive the necessary environmental or other permits and governmental approvals to operate our power plant; 17 Table of Contents · although we plan to enter into long-term contracts to sell a significant part of our future power production, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such contracts or that they will be on favorable terms; and · we will also be subject to the general commercial issues related to being in the power business, including the credit-worthiness of, and collections from future customers and the ability to profitably operate our future power plants. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting that region specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador and adjacent waters means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should that region, for example, experience: · natural disasters and severe weather (such as the effects of “El Niño,” which can cause excessive rainfall and flooding in Peru and Ecuador); · delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; · delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or · changes in the political or regulatory environment. Because all our properties could experience the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have properties over a wider geographic area. Along with the general instability that comes from international operations, we face political and geographical risk specific to working in South America. Presently, all of our oil and gas properties are located in South America, specifically Peru and Ecuador. The success and profitability of our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: · economic, labor, and social conditions; · local and regional political instability; · tax laws (including host-country export, excise and income taxes and U.S. taxes on foreign operations); and · fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be conducted. This instability in laws, expenses of operations and fluctuations in exchange rates may make our assumptions about the economic viability of our oil and gas properties incorrect. If these assumptions are incorrect, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenue to cover our costs of operations. Social and political unrest in Peru could cause heightened scrutiny over oil and gas regulatory matters. We believe there has been recent heightened scrutiny over regulatory matters concerning oil and gas exploration and production and the award of licensing contracts in Peru, in large part due to social and political unrest. For example, in August 2008, Peru’s Congress repealed two presidential decrees that made it easier for companies and individuals to buy land belonging to indigenous peoples as a result of protests from a large number of indigenous people in Peru’s Amazon jungle. Beginning in April 2009, thousands of indigenous people again protested by blocking roads and waterways in eastern Peru to try to force the repeal of additional decrees facilitating oil exploration, commercial farming and logging in parts of the Amazon jungle, resulting in a violent clash between police officers and the protestors in June 2009. The violence led to the suspension of several of the decrees and the Peruvian President’s third reshuffle of his cabinet since he came to power in 2006. Peru’s most recent municipal and regional political elections were held in November 2010, and the next Peruvian Presidential and Congressional election will be in April 2011. The campaigning leading up to the elections will likely cause heightened political risk and attention to various topics, including the regulation of oil and gas companies operating in Peru, 18 Table of Contents and related environmental law compliance. As a result of these or similar events, a shift in policy could occur with respect to the regulation of oil and gas companies making it more difficult or expensive to operate in such an environment. Our operations in Peru and Ecuador involve substantial costs and are subject to certain risks because the oil and gas industry in Peru and Ecuador is less developed when compared to the United States. Because the oil and gas industry in Peru and Ecuador is less developed than in the United States, our drilling and development operations, in many instances, will take longer to complete and may cost more than similar operations in the United States. The availability of technical expertise and specific equipment and supplies may be more limited or costly in Peru and Ecuador than in the United States. If we are unable to obtain or unable to obtain without undue cost drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel, our exploitation and exploration operations could be delayed or adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, once oil and natural gas production is recovered, there are fewer ways to transport it to market for sale. Marine transportation is subject to risks such as adverse weather conditions, collisions, groundings and other risks of damage or delay. Pipeline and trucking operations are subject to uncertainty and lack of availability. Oil and natural gas pipelines and truck transport travel through miles of territory and are subject to the risk of diversion, destruction or delay. We expect that such factors will continue to subject our international operations to economic and operating risks that companies with domestic operations do not experience. We are subject to numerous foreign laws and regulations of the oil and natural gas industry that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive foreign laws and regulations relating to the exploration for oil and natural gas and the development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas as well as electrical power generation. Because the oil and gas industry in the countries in which we operate is less developed than elsewhere, changes in laws and interpretations of laws are more likely than in countries with a more developed oil and gas industry. Future laws or regulations, as well as any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, there are indications that the current administration in Ecuador is likely to increase state intervention in the economy via new legislation and tightening control of areas such as energy, which could have a significant impact on our ability to operate in that country. We may be required to make large and unanticipated expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: · work program guarantees and other financial responsibility requirements; · taxation; · royalty requirements; · customer requirements; · employee compensation and benefit costs; · operational reporting; · environmental and safety requirements; and · unitization requirements. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: · personal injuries; · property and natural resource damages; · unexpected employee compensation and benefit costs; · governmental infringements and sanctions; and · unitization payments. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the terms of certain contracts related to our foreign operations, we could lose our rights under each of those contracts. The terms of each of our contracts with the government of Peru, including our Peruvian oil and gas license contracts, require that we perform certain activities, such as seismic acquisition, processing and interpretations and the drilling of required wells in accordance with those contracts and agreements. We are also required to conduct environmental impact assessments and establish our ability to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to timely perform those activities as required could result in the suspension of our current production and sale of oil, the loss of our rights under a particular contract and/or the loss of the amounts we have posted as a guaranty for the performance of such activities, which would result in a significant loss to us. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), and our failure to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Since all of our oil and gas properties are in Peru and Ecuador, there is a risk of potential FCPA violations. We have a FCPA policy and a compliance program designed to ensure that the Company, its employees and agents comply with the FCPA. There is no assurance that such policy or program will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. Any violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. We are subject to complex environmental regulatory and permitting laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of our planned operations. The exploration for, and the development, production and sale of, oil and gas in South America, and the construction and operation of power generation and gas processing facilities and pipelines in South America are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. For example, we are required to obtain an environmental permit or approval from the government in Peru prior to conducting seismic operations, drilling a well or constructing a pipeline in Peruvian territory, including the waters offshore of Peru, where we intend to conduct future oil and gas operations. We are also required to comply with numerous environmental regulations in order to transition from exploration into commercial production in the Albacora field or any new fields we develop. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations promulgated in Peru impose substantial restrictions on, among other things, the use of natural resources, interference with the natural environment, and the location of facilities, the handling and storage of hazardous materials such as hydrocarbons, the use of radioactive material, the disposal of waste, and the emission of noise and other activities. The laws create additional monitoring and reporting obligations in the event of any spillage or unregulated discharge of hazardous materials such as hydrocarbons. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our planned drilling operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Our current permits and authorizations and our ability to get future permits and authorizations may, over time, be susceptible to increased scrutiny, resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. In particular, we may experience delays in obtaining permits and authorizations in Peru necessary for our operations. We have currently suspended drilling in the Albacora field until our planned 3-D seismic acquisition program in Block Z-1 is carried out. In 2009, we attempted to acquire 3-D seismic in Block Z-1, but stopped our seismic acquisition program at the request of the government. We are currently completing additional government requested environmental studies to obtain the permit to begin the seismic acquisition program. Current indications are that permits should be granted and acquisition could begin in the middle of 2011. However, any material delays in receiving these permits could delay our ability to resume our drilling program in the Albacora field and could negatively affect our indicated reserves in Albacora. Compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs of operations, as well as further restrict our foreign operations. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. These laws and regulations have changed in the past and have generally imposed more stringent requirements that increase operating costs or require capital expenditures in order to remain in compliance. It is also possible that unanticipated developments could cause us to make environmental expenditures that are significantly higher than those we currently anticipate, thereby increasing our overall costs. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could cause us to suspend or terminate certain operations or subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to implement our plan of operation. 20 Table of Contents Compliance with, or breach of, laws relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment can be costly and could limit our operations. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties in Peru and Ecuador, we are subject to various national, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, (i) impose liability on the owner or lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up resulting from operations; (ii) subject the owner or lessee to liability for pollution damages and other environmental or natural resource damages; and (iii) require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas or related sales of oil and gas. We have established practices for continued compliance with environmental laws and regulations and we believe the costs incurred by these policies and procedures so far have been necessary business costs in our industry. However, there is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not increase such compliance costs, or have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Our oil and gas operations involve substantial costs and are subject to various economic risks. Our oil and gas operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development and production activities, including the necessity of significant expenditures to locate and acquire producing properties and to drill exploratory wells. The cost and length of time necessary to produce any reserves may be such that it will not be economically viable. In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, development and production activities to be unsuccessful. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. We also face the risk that the oil and/or gas reserves may be less than anticipated, that we will not have sufficient funds to successfully drill on the property, that we will not be able to market the oil and/or gas due to a lack of a market and that fluctuations in the prices of oil and/or gas will make development of those wells uneconomical. This could result in a total loss of our investments made in our operations. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; many of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel and equipment. In addition, changes in Peruvian government regulation have enabled multinational and regional companies to enter the Peruvian energy market. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. Competition in our business activities has increased and will increase further, as existing and new participants expand their activities as a result of these regulatory changes. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we have. For example, if several companies are interested in an area, Perupetro (a state company responsible for promoting and overseeing the investment of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation activities in Peru) may choose to call for bids, either through international competitive biddings or through private bidding processes by invitation, and award the contract to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for properties operated by third parties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the business practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. The loss of senior management or key technical personnel could adversely affect us. We have engaged certain members of management who have substantial expertise in the type of endeavors we presently conduct and the geographical areas in which we conduct them. We do not maintain any life insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. To the extent their services become unavailable, we will be required to retain other qualified personnel. There can be no assurance we will be able to recruit and hire qualified persons on acceptable terms. Similarly, the oil and gas exploration industry requires the use of personnel with substantial technical expertise. In the event that the services of our current technical personnel become unavailable, we will need to hire qualified personnel to take their place. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recruit and hire such persons on acceptable terms. Inability to replace lost members of management or personnel may adversely affect us. 21 Table of Contents Insurance does not cover all risks. Exploration for, and the production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, formations, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property, the environment or natural resources. As a result, we presently maintain insurance coverage in amounts consistent with our business activities and to the extent required by our license contracts. Such insurance coverage includes certain physical damage to the Company’s and third parties’ property, hull and machinery, protection and indemnity, employer’s liability, comprehensive third party general liability, workers compensation and certain pollution and environmental risks. However, we are not fully insured against all risks in all aspects of our business, such as political risk, civil unrest, war, business interruption, environmental damage and reservoir loss or damage. Further, no such insurance coverage can insure for all operational or environmental risks. The occurrence of an event that is not insured or not fully insured could result in losses to us. For example, uninsured or under insured environmental damages, property damages or damages related to personal injuries could divert capital needed to implement our plan of operation. If any such uninsured losses are significant, we may have to curtail or suspend our drilling or other operations until such time as replacement capital is obtained, if ever, and this could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. We may not be able to replace our reserves. Our future success will depend upon our ability to find, acquire and develop oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Any reserves we develop will decline as they are produced unless we are able to conduct successful revitalization activities, or are able to replace the reserves by acquiring properties containing proven reserves, or both. To develop reserves and achieve production, we must implement our development and production programs, identify and produce previously overlooked or by-passed zones and shut-in wells, acquire additional properties or undertake other replacement activities. We can give no assurance that our planned development, revitalization, and acquisition activities will result in significant reserves replacement or that we will have success in discovering and producing reserves economically. We may not be able to locate geologically satisfactory property, particularly since we will be competing for such property with other oil and gas companies, most of which have much greater financial resources than we do. Moreover, even if desirable properties are available to us, we may not have sufficient funds with which to acquire or develop them. Risks Relating to Our Securities Investor profits, if any, may be limited for the near future. In the past, we have never paid a dividend. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Accordingly, investors in our common stock may not derive any profits from their investment in us for the foreseeable future, other than through any price appreciation of our common stock that may occur. Further, any appreciation in the price of our common stock may be limited or nonexistent as long as we continue to have operating losses. We have not been profitable and have accumulated deficits of operations totaling $301.0 million through December 31, 2010. To date we have had limited revenue and no earnings from operations. There can be no assurances that sufficient revenue to cover total expenses can be achieved until, if at all, we fully implement our operational plan. Additional infusions of capital may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. To finance our operations we may sell additional shares of our common stock. During the first quarter of 2010, we issued $170.9 million of Convertible Notes due 2015 that, if converted to common stock, could significantly increase the amount of our common shares outstanding by up to approximately 28.9 million shares currently. We currently have $134.6 million in common stock available under an effective shelf registration statement, and another $500 million available under the same shelf registration statement for debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and securities warrants, subscription rights, units, and guarantees of debt securities or any combination thereof, which we may sell from time to time in one or more offerings pursuant to underwritten public offerings, negotiated transactions, at the market transactions, block trades or a combination of these methods. Our certificate of formation does not provide for preemptive rights. Any additional equity financing that we receive may involve substantial dilution to our then-existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may issue common stock to acquire properties, assets, or businesses. In the event that any such shares are issued, the proportionate ownership and voting power of other shareholders will be reduced. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our Board of Directors. If we issue shares of preferred stock, such preferred stock may have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt, including the Convertible Notes due 2015 or the $40.0 million credit facility with Credit Suisse. Our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt, including the Convertible Notes due 2015 or the $40.0 million credit facility with Credit 22 Table of Contents Suisse. Many of these factors, such as oil and gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: · refinancing or restructuring our debt; · selling assets; · reducing or delaying capital investments; or · seeking to raise additional capital. However, any alternative financing plans that we undertake, if necessary, may not allow us to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, including our obligations under the notes, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Shares eligible for future sale by our current shareholders may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had 115.5 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, we currently have outstanding 34.1 million shares of potentially dilutive securities, which mainly consist of approximately 28.9 million shares that are potentially convertible under our Convertible Notes due 2015 and 5.2 million options granted under our 2005 and 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended. We also have an additional 4.6 million shares of common stock allocated under our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and our 2007 Directors’ Compensation Incentive Plan. The Convertible Notes due 2015 in the amount of $170.9 million were issued during the first quarter of 2010. The possibility that substantial amounts of shares of our common stock may be sold in the public market may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decrease and thus could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Our officers, directors, entities affiliated with them and certain institutional investors may exercise significant control over us. In the aggregate, our management and directors own or control approximately 14.3% of our common stock, and several institutional investors own approximately another 28.7% of our common stock, issued as of December 31, 2010. These shareholders own in total approximately 43.0%, and, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which we are subject may delay or prevent a change in control of us that some shareholders may favor. Our certificate of formation and bylaws contain provisions that, either alone or in combination with the provisions of Texas law described below, may have the effect of delaying or making it more difficult for another person to acquire us by means of a hostile tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions include: · A board of directors classified into three classes of directors with each class having staggered, three-year terms. As a result of this provision, at least two annual meetings of shareholders may be required for the shareholders to change a majority of our board of directors. · The board’s authority to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, which preferred stock could have voting, liquidation, dividend or other rights superior to those of our common stock. To the extent any such provisions are included in any preferred stock, they could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. · Our shareholders cannot act by less than unanimous written consent and must comply with the provisions of our bylaws requiring advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or impeding a proxy contest for control of us. · Provisions of Texas law, which we did not opt out of in our certificate of formation, that restrict business combinations with “affiliated shareholders” and provide that directors serving on staggered boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause. 23 Table of Contents Any or all of these provisions could discourage tender offers or other business combination transactions that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the then current market price of our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which the shares were acquired. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could adversely affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; · failure to be covered by securities analysts, or failure by us to meet securities analysts’ expectations; · success of our operating strategies; · decline in the stock price of companies that are our peers; · realization of any of the risks described in this section; or · general market and economic conditions. Because we are a relatively new public company, these fluctuations may be more significant for us than they would be for a company whose stock has been publicly traded over an extended period of time. In addition, the stock market has experienced in the past, and may again in the future experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 