Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the common stock of Stewardship Financial Corporation involve risk. The following discussion highlights the risks management believes are material for our Corporation, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Bank. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates can also adversely affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, fair value of financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of our assets and liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to mitigate and manage credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and approval procedures, monitoring of loan concentrations and periodic independent review of outstanding loans. We cannot be assured that these procedures will reduce credit risk inherent in the business. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and assets serving as collateral for loan repayments. In determining the size of our allowance for loan loss, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions. Our geographic concentration in northern New Jersey could be impacted by changes in local economic conditions. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the nation, the state of New Jersey, and the Northern New Jersey area. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Competition within the financial services industry could adversely affect our profitability. We face strong competition from banks, other financial institutions, money market mutual funds and brokerage firms within the New York metropolitan area. A number of these entities have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. If we are unsuccessful in competing effectively, we will lose market share and may suffer a reduction in our margins and suffer adverse consequences to the results of operations and financial condition. Federal and State Regulations could restrict our business and non-compliance would result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the State of New Jersey. Such regulation and supervision of the activities in which an institution may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall operations. Changes to statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, and interpretations of policies and regulations could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with law, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have polices and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurances that such violations will not occur. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of our vendors could negatively affect our reputation and business. We rely upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the internet for the purpose of data processing, communication and information exchange. Despite the safeguards instituted by management, such systems are susceptible to a breach of security. In addition, we rely on the service of a variety of third-party vendors to meet our processing needs. If confidential information is compromised, financial losses, costs and damages could occur. Such costs and or losses could materially affect our earnings. In addition the negative affect on our reputation could affect our ability to deliver products and services successfully to new and existing customers. The trading volume of our stock remains low which could impact stock prices. The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock which trades on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in the other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuation in operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in legal or regulatory environment; · press releases, publicity, or announcements; · changes in expectation of our future financial performance; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions; and · other developments affecting our corporation or our competitors These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Corporation has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 