ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors also could affect our financial condition and results of operations: Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private sector spending. If the economy remains weak or uncertain, or client spending declines further, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition could deteriorate. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns and reductions in government and private sector spending, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. In fiscal year 2009, our clients were affected by the weak economic conditions caused by the declines in the overall economy and constraints in the credit market. As a result, some clients have delayed, curtailed or cancelled proposed and existing projects and may continue to do so, thus decreasing the overall demand for our services and adversely affecting our results of operations. We experienced and expect to continue to experience delays or deferrals of existing and proposed projects. For example, for the year ended January 1, 2010, we experienced a decline in our revenues compared to fiscal year 2008 and an overall slowdown in project awards. In light of current macroeconomic conditions, we expect revenues from our power and industrial and commercial market sectors will continue to decline in 2010. In addition, our clients may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to limitations on the availability of credit and other uncertainties in the federal, municipal and corporate credit markets. Also, our clients may demand more favorable pricing terms and find it increasingly difficult to timely pay invoices for our services, which would impact our future cash flows and liquidity. In addition, any rapid changes in the prices of commodities make it difficult for our clients and us to forecast future capital expenditures. Inflation or significant changes in interest rates could reduce the demand for our services. Any inability to timely collect our invoices may lead to an increase in our accounts receivables and potentially to increased write-offs of uncollectible invoices. If the economy remains weak or uncertain, or client spending declines further, then our revenues, book of business, net income and overall financial condition could deteriorate. We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our book of business, particularly in light of the current economic conditions, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our expected profits and revenues. We account for all contract awards that may eventually be recognized as revenues or equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures as our “book of business,” which includes backlog, option years and IDCs. Our backlog consists of the monetary value of signed contracts, including task orders that have been issued and funded under IDCs and, where applicable, a notice to proceed has been received from the client that is expected to be recognized as revenues when future services are performed. As of January 1, 2010, our book of business was estimated at approximately $29.4 billion, which included $17.3 billion of our backlog. Our option year contracts are multi-year contracts with base periods, plus option years that are exercisable by our clients without the need for us to go through another competitive bidding process and would be cancelled only if a client decides to end the project (a termination for convenience) or through a termination for default. Our IDCs are signed contracts under which we perform work only when our clients issue specific task orders. Our book of business estimates may not result in realized profits and revenues in any particular period because clients may delay, modify terms or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options or issue task orders. This uncertainty is particularly acute in light of current economic conditions as the risk of contracts in backlog being delayed or cancelled is more likely to increase during periods of economic volatility. In addition, our government contracts or subcontracts are subject to renegotiation or termination at the convenience of the applicable U.S. federal, state or local governments, as well as national governments of other countries. Accordingly, if we do not realize a substantial amount of our book of business, our operations could be harmed and our expected profits and revenues could be significantly reduced. 18 Table of Contents As a government contractor, we must comply with various laws and regulations and are subject to regular government audits; failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as a government contractor. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. As a government contractor, we enter into many contracts with federal, state and local government clients. For example, revenues from our federal market sector represented 45% of our total revenues for the year ended January 1, 2010. We are affected by and must comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS, ARRA, the Services Contract Act and DOD security regulations, as well as many other laws and regulations. In addition, we must also comply with other government regulations related to employment practices, environmental protection, health and safety, tax, accounting and anti-fraud, as well as many others in order to maintain our government contractor status. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our clients and in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor’s performance under its contracts, a government contractor’s direct and indirect cost structure, and a government contractor’s compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For example, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs and, if the DCAA believes we have accounted for these costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. We can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowances for incurred costs in the future. In addition, government contracts are subject to a variety of other socioeconomic requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting for these contracts. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or failure to comply with anti-bribery and other government laws and regulations could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable government laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. 19 Table of Contents Our policies mandate compliance with these regulation and laws, and we take precautions to prevent and detect misconduct. However, since our internal controls are subject to inherent limitations, including human error, it is possible that these controls could be intentionally circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions. As a result, we cannot assure that our controls will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees and agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearances, and suspension or debarment from contracting, any or all of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our profits and revenues. Revenues from our federal market sector represented approximately 45% of our total revenues for the year ended January 1, 2010. Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as IDCs, that generally require those contractors that have previously been awarded the IDC to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. In addition, the U.S. government has announced its intention to scale back outsourcing of services in favor of “insourcing” jobs to its employees, which could reduce our revenues. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and under-represented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and reduce our profits and revenues. Each year, client funding for some of our government contracts may rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing. If adequate public funding is delayed or is not available, then our profits and revenues could decline. Each year client funding for some of our government contracts may directly or indirectly rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing such as the ARRA, which provides funding for various clients’ state transportation projects. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. In addition, public-supported financing such as state and local municipal bonds, may be only partially raised to support existing infrastructure projects. As a result, a project we are currently working on may only be partially funded and thus additional public funding may be required in order to complete our contract. Public funds and the timing of payment of these funds may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contractors, a rise in the cost of raw materials, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If adequate public funding is not available or is delayed, then our profits and revenues could decline. Our government contracts may give government agencies the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate existing contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion, which may result in a decline in our profits and revenues. Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right for government agencies to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts and subcontracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in our profits and revenues. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profits. It is important for us to accurately estimate and control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins and profitability. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus, fixed-price, target-price and time-and-materials. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all of the costs we incur. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we can control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on our contracts. Under target-price contracts, project costs are reimbursable and our fee is established against a target budget that is subject to changes in project circumstances and scope. As a result of the WGI acquisition, the number and size of our target-price and fixed-price contracts have increased, which may increase the volatility of our profitability. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. If we are unable to accurately estimate and manage our costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Many of our contracts require us to satisfy specified design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achieving the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. If the customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the customer defaults on its payment obligations, we may encounter difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may reduce our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we may recognize revenue over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: · the application of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; · provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; · impairment of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; · valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; · valuation of defined benefit pension plans and other employee benefit plans; · valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may reduce our profits. 21 Table of Contents Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our workforce. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: · our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; · our ability to manage attrition; · our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and · our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. If we overutilize our workforce, our employees may become disengaged, which will impact employee attrition. If we underutilize our workforce, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our failure to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts could reduce our profits. Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a surety bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by our clients, industrial accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may be required to pay liquidated damages if we fail to meet milestone requirements in our contracts. We may be required to pay liquidated damages if we fail to meet milestone requirements in our contracts. For example, one of our construction projects gives the client the right to assess approximately $25 million if project milestones are not completed by pre-determined dates. Failure to meet any of the milestone requirements could result in additional costs, and the amount of such additional costs could exceed the projected profits on the project. These additional costs include liquidated damages paid under contractual penalty provisions, which can be substantial and can accrue on a regular basis. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to joint and several liability and financial penalties that could reduce our profits and revenues. We often partner with unaffiliated third parties, individually or via a joint venture, to jointly bid on and perform on a particular project. For example, for the year ended January 1, 2010, our equity in income of unconsolidated joint ventures amounted to $100.9 million. The success of our partnerships and joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of contractual obligations by each member. In addition, when we operate through a joint venture in which we are a minority holder, we have limited control over many project decisions, including decisions related to the joint venture’s internal controls, which may not be subject to the same internal control procedures that we employ. If these unaffiliated third parties do not fulfill their contract obligations, the partnerships or joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver their contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be obligated to pay financial penalties, provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services and may be jointly and severally liable for the other’s actions or contract performance. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits and revenues or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. 23 Table of Contents Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment and material providers could reduce our profits. We rely on third-party subcontractors and equipment and material providers. For example, we procure heavy equipment and construction materials as needed when performing large construction and contract mining projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment and materials at reasonable costs, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceed our estimates, we could experience reduced profit or experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials are needed. If we experience delays and/or defaults in client payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we may be unable to recover all working capital or equity investments. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we may commit resources to a client’s projects before receiving payments to cover our expenditures. Sometimes, we incur and record expenditures for a client project before receiving any payment to cover our expenses. In addition, we may make equity investments in majority or minority controlled large-scale client projects and other long-term capital projects before the project completes operational status or completes its project financing. If a client project is unable to make its payments, we could incur losses including our working capital or equity investments. The recent tightening of credit could increase this risk, as more clients may be unable to secure sufficient liquidity to pay their obligations. If a client delays or defaults in making its payments on a project to which we have devoted significant resources, it could have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows. Our failure to adequately recover on claims brought by us against project owners for additional contract costs could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. We have brought claims against project owners for additional costs exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, both of which may result in additional cost. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we have used working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a negative impact on our liquidity and profitability. Target-price and fixed-price contracts have increased due to our WGI acquisition as well as a shift away from cost-reimbursable contracts by some clients, thus increasing the volatility of our earnings. Our WGI acquisition increased the number and size of our target-price and fixed-price contracts because WGI has historically performed construction-related projects that are more likely to use fixed-price contracts. In addition, the current administration has encouraged the federal government to increase the use of target-price and fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, costs and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. We could experience cost overruns if these estimates are originally inaccurate as a result of errors or ambiguities in the contract specifications, or become inaccurate as a result of a change in circumstances following the submission of the estimate due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or inability of our vendors or subcontractors to perform. If cost overruns occur, we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. For example, one of our construction projects has experienced cost increases and schedule delays and we have recorded cumulative project losses of approximately $82 million as of January 1, 2010. If a project is significant, or if there are one or more common issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business and earnings. 24 Table of Contents Maintaining adequate bonding capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win fixed-price contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to clients under fixed-price contracts. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. We have bonding capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significantly higher costs. There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new fixed-price contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Construction and project sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Failure to maintain safe work sites could result in employee deaths or injuries, reduced profitability, the loss of projects or clients and possible exposure to litigation. Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites, we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement these procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, we may suffer the loss of or injury to our employees, as well as expose ourselves to possible litigation. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits will be reduced. A decline in our stock price and market capitalization could result in an impairment of a material amount of our goodwill, which would reduce our earnings. Goodwill may be impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units’ goodwill is less than the carrying value of the unit’s goodwill. Because we have grown through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other net intangible assets were $3.6 billion as of January 1, 2010. We perform an analysis on our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. There are several instances that may cause us to further test our goodwill for impairment between the annual testing periods including: (i) continued deterioration of market and economic conditions that may adversely impact our ability to meet our projected results; (ii) declines in our stock price caused by continued volatility in the financial markets that may result in increases in our weighted-average cost of capital or other inputs to our goodwill assessment; (iii) the occurrence of events that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, such as the sale of a significant portion of one or more of our reporting units. We also perform an analysis of our intangible assets to test for impairment whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. Examples of such events are i) significant adverse changes in its market value, useful life, physical condition, or in the business climate that could affect its value; ii) a current-period operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the intangible asset; and iii) a current expectation that, more likely than not, the intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 25 Table of Contents We may be subject to substantial liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. A portion of our environmental business involves the planning, design, program management, construction and construction management, and operation and maintenance of pollution control and nuclear facilities, hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we have contracts with U.S. federal government entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles, as well as to decontaminate and decommission nuclear facilities. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. We must comply with a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under CERCLA and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of cleanup could be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. Our past waste management practices and contract mining activities as well as our current and prior ownership of various properties may also expose us to such liabilities. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability. Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. We engage in engineering, construction and technical services that can result in substantial injury or damages that may expose us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury and wrongful death claims, employee or labor disputes, professional liability claims, and general commercial disputes involving project cost overruns and liquidated damages as well as other claims. See Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included under Item 8 for a discussion of some of our legal proceedings. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about environmental and engineering conditions of project sites for our clients. We may be deemed to be responsible for these judgments and recommendations if they are later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities. Generally, our insurance program includes limits totaling $540.0 million per loss and in the aggregate for general liability; $220.0 million per loss and in the aggregate for professional errors and omissions liability; $140.0 million per loss for property; $100.0 million per loss for marine property and liability; and $100.0 million per loss and in the aggregate for contractor’s pollution liability (in addition to other policies for specific projects). The general liability, professional errors and omissions liability, property, and contractor’s pollution liability limits are in excess of a self-insured retention of $10.0 million for each covered claim. In addition, our insurance policies contain exclusions that insurance providers may use to deny us insurance coverage. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, including our profits and revenues. 26 Table of Contents Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. If any of our third-party insurers fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. Changes in environmental, defense, or infrastructure industry laws could directly or indirectly reduce the demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Some of our services are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the environmental, defense or infrastructure industries. For example, passage of the Clean Air Mercury environmental rules increased demand for our emissions control services, and any repeal of these rules would have a negative impact on our revenues. Proposed climate change and greenhouse gas regulations, if adopted, could impact the services we provide to our clients, including services related to fossil fuel and industrial projects. Relaxation or repeal of laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the environmental, defense or infrastructure industries could result in a decline in demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Limitations of or modifications to indemnification regulations of the U.S. or foreign countries could adversely affect our business. The Price-Anderson Act (“PAA”) comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials, while promoting the nuclear energy industry by offering broad indemnification to nuclear energy plant operators and DOE contractors. Because we provide services to the DOE relating to its nuclear weapons facilities and the nuclear energy industry in the ongoing maintenance and modification, as well as the decontamination and decommissioning, of its nuclear energy plants, we may be entitled to some of the indemnification protections under the PAA. However, the PAA’s indemnification provisions do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a radioactive materials cleanup contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If the PAA’s indemnification protection does not apply to our services or our exposure occurs outside of the U.S., our business could be adversely affected by either a refusal to retain us by new facilities operations or our inability to obtain commercially adequate insurance and indemnification. A decline in defense or other federal spending or a change in budgetary priorities could reduce our profits and revenues. Revenues from our federal market sector represented 45% of our total revenues and contracts, of which the DOD and other defense-related clients represented approximately 30% of our total revenues for the year ended January 1, 2010. Past increases in spending authorization for defense-related or other federal programs and in outsourcing of federal government jobs to the private sector are not expected to be sustained on a long-term basis. For example, the DOD budget declined in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in DOD program delays and cancellations. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related or other federal programs, including foreign military commitments, may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in defense or other federal spending or a change in budgetary priorities could reduce our profits and revenues. 27 Table of Contents Our overall market share and profits will decline if we are unable to compete successfully in our industry. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. For example, according to the publication Engineering News-Record, based on voluntarily reported information, the top ten U.S. engineering design firms accounted only for approximately 40% of the total top 500 U.S. design firm revenues in 2008. The top 20 U.S. contractors accounted for approximately 41% of the total top 400 U.S. contractors’ revenues in 2008, as reported by the Engineering News-Record. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of some of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share, revenues and profits will decline. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As a professional and technical services company, we are labor intensive, and, therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. We may occasionally enter into contracts before we have hired or retained appropriate staffing for that project. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. If we are unable to retain executives and other key personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources to identify, hire and integrate new employees. In addition, the failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. We may be required to contribute cash to meet our underfunded benefit obligations in our employee retirement plans. We have various employee retirement plan obligations that require us to make contributions to satisfy, over time, our underfunded benefit obligations, which are determined by calculating the projected benefit obligations minus the fair value of plan assets. For example, as of January 1, 2010, our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans were underfunded by $180.4 million. In the future, our retirement plan obligations may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan asset performance and other factors. If we are required to contribute a significant amount of the deficit for underfunded benefit plans, our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully integrate acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of the acquisition, which could severely weaken our results of operations. Historically, we have used acquisitions as one way to expand our business. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, may preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of two combining companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among others: · unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; · unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods; · maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; · integrating the business cultures of both companies; · preserving important strategic and customer relationships; · consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; · the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and · coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Our outstanding indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and financial condition. As of January 1, 2010, our outstanding balance under the Senior Secured Credit Facility (“2007 Credit Facility”) was $775.0 million. We have prepaid scheduled principal payments on the 2007 Credit Facility until December 2011. This level of debt might: · increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; · adversely affect our ability to obtain surety bonds; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate initiatives; and · limit our ability to apply proceeds from an asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. Our access to credit markets may be limited if we require an increased level of debt. If we were required to access the corporate debt markets, we cannot be assured that we would be able to finance the required amount in full or at a rate and on terms that are favorable to us. Currently, the debt markets are highly volatile, and success can depend on exogenous variables that impact the overall credit markets, regardless of our inherent qualifications to secure financing. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate or borrow enough cash to service our indebtedness, which could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash from operations to service our indebtedness in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. Our 2007 Credit Facility limits our ability to sell assets and also restricts our use of the proceeds from any such sale. If we default on our debt obligations, our lenders could require immediate repayment of our entire outstanding debt. If our lenders require immediate repayment on the entire principal amount, we will not be able to repay them in full, and our inability to meet our debt obligations could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. Because we are a holding company, we may not be able to service our debt if our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than investments in the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our business operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for payments and dividends to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal restrictions, including state and local tax regulations and other contractual obligations could restrict or impair our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt at maturity. Restrictive covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility may restrict our ability to pursue business strategies. Our 2007 Credit Facility and our other outstanding indebtedness include covenants limiting our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends to our stockholders; · repurchase or redeem our stock; · repay indebtedness that is junior to our 2007 Credit Facility; · make investments and other restricted payments; · create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; · sell or exchange assets; and · acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. Our 2007 Credit Facility also requires that we maintain various financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. The covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. 30 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could significantly reduce our profits and revenues or subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. As a multinational company, we have operations in more than 30 countries and we derived 9% of our revenues from international operations for the year ended January 1, 2010. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: · lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; · greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; · currency fluctuations; · logistical and communication challenges; · potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; · changes in labor conditions; · general economic, political and financial conditions in foreign markets; and · exposure to civil or criminal liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, anti-boycott rules, trade and export control rules and other international regulations, for example: o Foreign Corrupt Practices Act: Practices in the local business community outside the U.S. might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits giving or offering to give anything of value with the intent to influence the awarding of government contracts; and o Export Control Regulations: To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury; and o Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act: In the U.K., companies can be found guilty of corporate manslaughter as a result of serious management failures resulting in a gross breach of a duty of care. International risks and violations of international regulations may significantly reduce our profits and revenues and subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, suspensions or disqualification from future U.S. federal procurement contracting. Although we have policies and procedures to monitor legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenues attributed to our international operations. Our international operations may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, some of our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity, acts of terrorism, or public health crises. For example, we have employees working in high security risk countries located in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. As a result, we risk loss of or injury to our employees and may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. 31 Table of Contents We rely on third-party internal and outsourced software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. As a result, any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain these systems could significantly increase our operational expense as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We rely on third-party internal and outsourced software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. For example, we relied on one software vendor’s products to process a majority of our total revenues for the year ended January 1, 2010. We also depend on our software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case, we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense as well as disrupting the management of our business operations. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact our business, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure or extraordinary events beyond the control of the contracting parties could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. For example, in August 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused several of our Gulf Coast offices to close, interrupted a number of active client projects and forced the relocation of our employees in that region from their homes. In addition, during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, many client records were destroyed when our office at the World Trade Center was destroyed. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of January 29, 2010, approximately 14% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefit expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address the threat of union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature of the threat or the type and duration of any work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies and other contractual arrangements to protect much of our intellectual property. Trade secrets are generally difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property, our competitive position could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as those relating to advance notice of certain stockholder proposals and nominations, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. Our stock price could become more volatile and stockholders’ investments could lose value. In addition to the macroeconomic factors that have recently affected the prices of many securities generally, all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public markets regarding new services or potential problems with the performance of services by us or our competitors or any other material announcements could affect our stock price. Speculation in the media and analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock can cause the price of our stock to change. Continued volatility in the financial markets could also cause further declines in our stock price, which could trigger an impairment of the goodwill of our individual reporting units that could be material to our consolidated financial statements. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements’ attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 