ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer, and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business We rely upon a few customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one or more of these customers, or a significant loss, reduction or rescheduling of orders from any of these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell most of our products to a small number of customers, and while we are continually seeking to expand and diversify our customer base, we expect this will continue. For fiscal 2011, sales to Team Alliance, one of our North American resellers, accounted for approximately 16% of revenues, sales to Nokia Siemens Networks accounted for approximately 16% of revenues, and sales to Raycom, one of our European resellers, accounted for approximately 11% of revenues. For fiscal 2011, sales to Nokia Siemens Networks accounted for approximately 24% of our revenues. Our revenues for fiscal 2011 declined by 25% from fiscal 2010 due to significant slowdowns in demand in several of our markets, including North America, Europe and the Middle East, as well as a significant reduction of demand from our original equipment manufacturing customers. Any continued decline in business with our original equipment manufacturer customers, including Nokia Siemens Networks and Samsung, and our direct wireless network operator customers and resellers, will have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success is dependent upon the continued purchases of our products by a small number of customers such as Nokia Siemens Networks, Samsung, other original equipment manufacturers, wireless network operator customers and our resellers, such as Team Alliance and Raycom, and our ability to sell our products into other market segments such as governmental, public safety, military and homeland security. Any fluctuation in demand from such customers or other customers has and will negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to broaden our customer base and expand relationships with major operators of wireless networks, our business will continue to be impacted by unanticipated demand fluctuations due to our dependence on a small number of customers. Unanticipated demand fluctuations do have a negative impact on our revenues and business, and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a small number of major customers exposes us to numerous other risks, including: • a slowdown or delay in deployment of wireless networks by any one or more customers could significantly reduce demand for our products; • reductions in a single customer’s forecasts and demand could result in excess inventories; • the recent recession and current economic weakness and uncertainty has negatively affected several of our customers and has caused them to significantly reduce current demand for our products; • the recent recession and current economic weakness and uncertainty could negatively affect one or more of our major customers and cause them to significantly reduce operations, or file for bankruptcy; • consolidation of customers can reduce demand as well as increase pricing pressure on our products due to increased purchasing leverage; • each of our customers has significant purchasing leverage over us to require changes in sales terms including pricing, payment terms and product delivery schedules; • customers could decide to increase their level of internal design and/or manufacture of wireless communication network products and reduce their purchases from us; and • concentration of accounts receivable credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if one of our major customers declares bankruptcy or delays payment of its receivables. We have strategically focused our business and sales efforts on growing our sales of higher margin products and solutions, which has reduced our total sales. Over the last two years, a period in which we have experienced a broad decline in the weighted sales price of our products, we have implemented a revised business and sales strategy under which we do not actively pursue low-margin, high-volume business, also referred to as commodity-like business. This strategy is having the effect of reducing our overall sales to original equipment manufacturer customers such as Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens Networks. We have also targeted additional markets such as government, public safety, military, and homeland security during this period. While we 14 Table of Contents believe that we have made progress in addressing these new markets, we have not yet generated significant revenue in these areas. Any continued reduction in demand from our original equipment manufacturer customers, if not offset by increased demand from other wireless network operator customers or customers in new markets, will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: • the concentration of our sales to a few large customers; • the lack of any obligation by our customers to purchase their forecasted demand for our products; • variations in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments; • production delays on new products that limit our revenue in a quarter; • increased costs associated with rising raw material costs, including oil prices; • activity relating to consolidations or proposed consolidations within our industry; • high fixed expenses that increase operating expenses, especially during a quarter with a sales shortfall; • product failures and associated warranty and in-field service support costs; • discounts given to certain customers for large volume purchases; • unanticipated increases in costs associated with projects in our coverage solutions product group; and • shortages of materials and components to manufacture our products. We regularly generate a large percentage of our revenues in the last month of a quarter. Because we attempt to ship products quickly after we receive orders, we may not always have a significant backlog of unfilled orders at the start of each quarter and we may be required to book a substantial portion of our orders during the quarter in which these orders ship. When we introduce new products into production, we may encounter production delays, such as we did in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, which limit our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Any shortfall in sales relative to our quarterly expectations or any delay of customer orders would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, shortages of materials, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past. Despite these factors, we, along with our contract manufacturers, attempt to maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than their forecasted orders or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers choose to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there might be inadequate inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. Future revenues and operating results may not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors. In either case, the price of our Common Stock could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results have been adversely impacted by the recent worldwide economic crisis, current economic uncertainty and credit tightening. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated due to the credit crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, decreased property values, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. While economic conditions have showed some signs of improving, these factors continue to have a negative impact on the availability of financial capital which has contributed to a reduction in demand for infrastructure in the wireless communication market. We believe that these conditions make it difficult for our customers and vendors to accurately 15 Table of Contents forecast and plan future business activities, causing domestic and foreign businesses to slow or suspend spending on our products and services. Some of our customers continue to find it difficult to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which has resulted in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If the current economic weakness and uncertainty continues, or if there is another economic recession, our revenues could be negatively impacted, thereby having a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days of sales outstanding may increase significantly, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot predict the magnitude, timing or duration of the current economic uncertainty or of its impact on the wireless industry. Negative conditions in the financial and credit markets may impact our liquidity. The ongoing economic weakness and uncertainty, concerns about a double dip recession, concerns about sovereign debt issues in some countries in the European Union, and the resulting constrained credit markets have had, and we anticipate they will continue to have, an impact on our liquidity. In particular, some of our customers facing liquidity shortages which affect their payments to us, and the general tightness in the credit markets which limits credit available to us as well as some of our customers. Given our current operating cash flow, financial assets, access to the capital markets and available lines of credit, we continue to believe that we will be able to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not worsen or our operating performance may worsen, which could have a corresponding negative effect on our liquidity. In addition, while we believe that we have invested our financial assets in sound financial institutions, should these institutions limit access to our assets, breach their agreements with us or fail, we may be adversely affected. In addition, volatile financial and credit markets may reduce our ability to raise capital or refinance our debt on favorable terms, if at all, which could materially impact our ability to meet our obligations. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have previously experienced significant reductions in demand for our products by certain customers and if this continues, our operating results will be adversely impacted. We have a history of significant unanticipated reductions in demand that demonstrate the risks related to our customer and industry concentration levels. While our revenues have increased at times during fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of this increase was due to our various acquisitions. During fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the global economic crisis and related recession are among several factors which we believe impacted our customers and reduced their demand for our products. During fiscal 2011, we experienced a significant drop in our revenues, which fell by over 25% from fiscal 2010. We believe that the reduction in our revenues was due to several factors, including significant slowdowns in spending by network operators in several of our markets, including North America, Europe and the Middle East. In addition, we experienced a significant reduction of demand from our original equipment manufacturing customers. In the past we have experienced significant unanticipated reductions in wireless network operator demand as well as significant delays in demand for 3G and 4G, or next generation service based products due to the high projected capital cost of building such networks, network operators deciding to slowdown or delay network deployments, and market concerns regarding the interoperability of such network protocols. In addition, certain network operators may decide to consolidate all purchases of products for their network into a small group of companies in order to gain further perceived cost savings. If we are not one of these selected companies, or are required to sell our products through such consolidators, our revenues and profits may be reduced which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In combination with these market issues, a majority of wireless network operators have, in the past, regularly reduced their capital spending plans in order to improve their overall cash flow. There is a substantial likelihood that the ongoing economic weakness and uncertainty will have continuing effects throughout 2012 and beyond, thereby having a negative impact on network operator deployment spending plans. The impact of any future reduction in capital spending by wireless network operators, coupled with any delays in the deployment of wireless networks, will result in reduced demand for our products, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on single sources or limited sources for key components and products, which exposes us to risks related to product shortages or delays, as well as potential product quality issues, all of which could increase the cost of our products thereby reducing our operating profits. During fiscal 2010, we experienced significant supply shortages of various electronic components as well as significantly increased order lead times for such components due to delays from increased worldwide demand for electronic components following improved global economic conditions following the 2008 global recession. This combined supply shortage and increase in material order lead times impacted our ability to timely produce products, which negatively impacted our revenues during fiscal 2010. While supply lead times improved somewhat during 2011, we currently expect some level of supply shortages and increased lead times to continue during 2012 and beyond. If these shortages and extended lead times continue, our future revenues may be negatively impacted and our manufacturing costs may significantly increase. In addition, a number of our products, and certain parts used in our products, are available from only one or a 16 Table of Contents limited number of outside suppliers due to unique component designs, as well as certain quality and performance requirements, which in turn may be dependent upon a limited number of suppliers themselves. Any disruption in this supply chain can negatively affect the timely availability of key components and parts necessary for the production of our products. To take advantage of volume pricing discounts, we also purchase certain products, and along with our contract manufacturers, purchase certain customized components, from single or limited sources. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, shortages of single-source and limited-source components. Shortages have compelled us to adjust our product designs and production schedules and have caused us to miss customer requested delivery dates. Missed customer delivery dates have had a material adverse impact on our financial results. If single-source or limited-source components become unavailable in sufficient quantities in the desired time periods, are discontinued or are available only on unsatisfactory terms, then we would be required to purchase comparable components from other sources and may be required to redesign our products to use such components, which could delay production and delivery of our products. If the production and delivery of our products is delayed such that we do not meet the agreed upon delivery dates of our customers, such delays could result in lost revenues due to customer cancellations, as well as potential financial penalties payable to our customers. Any such loss of revenue or financial penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on certain single-source and limited-source components and products also exposes us and our contract manufacturers to quality control risks if these suppliers experience a failure in their production process or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements. A failure in a single-source or limited-source component or product could force us to repair or replace a product utilizing replacement components. If we cannot obtain comparable replacements or redesign our products, we could lose customer orders or incur additional costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future and such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. As of January 1, 2012, we had approximately $64.1 million in cash, including $6.2 million in restricted cash. In the fourth quarter of 2011 we raised $49.1 million (net of transaction costs) through a sale leaseback transaction of our corporate headquarters facility. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In fiscal 2011, we used $47.9 million of cash in our operations, while our operations generated cash in 2010 and 2009. We are presently planning to initiate new cost reduction measures to further lower our manufacturing costs, reduce our operating expenses and conserve cash. We cannot predict if such cost reducing measures will be successful in reducing our cash used in operations. In addition, we cannot provide any guarantee that we will generate sufficient cash in the future to maintain or grow our operations over the long-term. We rely upon our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund our business. If we are not able to generate positive cash flow from operations, we may need to utilize sources of financing such as our credit agreement or other sources of cash. As of January 1, 2012 we had $13.9 million of availability under our credit agreement, of which approximately $6.3 million is utilized for a letter of credit. While our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (“Wells Fargo”), dated April 3, 2009 (the “Credit Agreement”) provides us with limited additional sources of liquidity, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to fund existing operations or to take advantage of opportunities, including acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies. In addition, if our business deteriorates further, we may not have any availability under our Credit Agreement and we might be unable to maintain compliance with the covenants in our Credit Agreement which could result in reduced availability under the Credit Agreement, an event of default under the Credit Agreement, or could make the Credit Agreement unavailable to us. If we are not successful in growing our businesses, reducing our manufacturing costs and operating expenses, reducing our inventories and accounts receivable, and managing the worldwide aspects of our company, our operations may not generate positive cash flow, and we may consume our cash resources faster than we anticipate. These circumstances together with our 2011 financial performance will make it more difficult to obtain new sources of financing. Our ability to secure additional financing is also dependent upon not only our business profitability, but also the credit markets, which became highly constrained due to credit concerns arising from the subprime mortgage lending market and subsequent worldwide economic recession. If we are unable to reduce our manufacturing costs and operating expenses, generate positive cash flow from our operations or secure additional financing or if such financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our operations, otherwise respond to unanticipated competitive pressures, or repay our convertible debt. We may fail to develop products that are of adequate quality and reliability, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and could expose us to significant liabilities. We have had quality problems with our products, including those we have acquired in acquisitions. We may have similar product quality problems in the future. We have replaced components in some products and replaced entire products in accordance with our product warranties. We believe that our customers will demand that our products meet increasingly 17 Table of Contents stringent performance and reliability standards. If we cannot keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and new communications protocols, if we fail to adequately improve product quality and meet the quality standards of our customers, or if our contract manufacturers fail to achieve the quality standards of our customers, we risk losing business which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Design problems could also damage relationships with existing and prospective customers and could limit our ability to market our products to large wireless infrastructure manufacturers, many of which build their own products and have stringent quality control standards. In addition, we have incurred significant costs addressing quality issues from products that we have acquired in certain of our acquisitions, including warranty costs related to these products. While we seek recovery of amounts that we have paid, or may pay in the future to resolve warranty claims through indemnification from the original manufacturer, this can be a costly and time consuming process. In our contracts with customers, we negotiate liability limits but not all of the contracts contain liability limits and some contracts contain limits which are greater than the price of the products sold. As a result, if we have quality problems with our products that we cannot fix and our customers bring a claim against us, we could incur significant liabilities which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter unanticipated cost increases in coverage systems projects. As part of our Coverage Solutions product group, we occasionally undertake installation projects in which we utilize third party contractors in addition to our personnel to install and deploy Coverage Solutions. Installation projects can be very complex and unanticipated factors or events may occur during a project which significantly impacts the expected cost of a project. Therefore, as part of these projects, we may encounter unanticipated deployment and installation costs, which if not reimbursed, will increase the overall costs of such projects and may have a negative impact on our gross margins, financial condition and results of operations. We encountered such expenses in the first quarter of 2011 and may encounter them in the future. We may be adversely affected by the financial difficulties or bankruptcy of our customers. One of our original equipment manufacturer customers, Nortel, filed for bankruptcy protection in the first quarter of 2009. Given the current economic weakness and uncertainty, it is possible that one or more of our other customers will suffer significant financial difficulties, including potentially filing for bankruptcy protection. In such an event, the demand for our products from these customers may decline significantly or cease completely. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to generate new demand to offset any such reductions from existing customers. If we are unable to continue to generate new demand, our revenues will decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. We may not successfully evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. While we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts and for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, greater than anticipated nonpayment and delinquency rates could harm our financial results and liquidity. Given the current economic uncertainty, and the possibility of a future recession, there are potential risks of greater than anticipated customer defaults. If the financial condition of any of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur unanticipated costs as we complete the restructuring of our business. During fiscal 2011, we experienced a significant drop in our revenues, which fell by over 25% from fiscal 2010. We believe that the reduction in our revenues was due to several factors, including significant slowdowns in spending by network operators in several of our markets, including North America, Europe and the Middle East. In addition, we experienced a significant reduction in demand from our original equipment manufacturing customers. In response to this sudden reduction in revenues, we initiated new cost reduction measures to both lower our manufacturing costs and reduce our operating expenses which resulted in restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2011 and will likely result in additional charges in future periods. We announced in February 2012 that we intend to undertake additional restructuring activities to further reduce our cost structure and operating costs. We have not yet finalized such restructuring plans. The failure to timely complete and implement the additional restructuring activities as well as to obtain operating expense reductions could undermine the anticipated benefits of the restructuring, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These anticipated benefits are based on projections and assumptions and our actual results may vary from our projections. Also, in the future we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in restructuring charges that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such potential restructuring actions could include cash expenditures that would reduce our available cash balances, which would have a negative impact on our business and our ability to repay our outstanding convertible subordinated debt. 18 Table of Contents The potential for increased commodity and energy costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The worldwide economy has experienced significant fluctuations in the price of oil and energy during the last four years and shortages of steel, copper and rare earth materials. Such fluctuations and shortages have resulted in significant price increases which translated into higher freight and transportation costs and higher raw material supply costs. These higher costs have negatively impacted our production costs. We are not normally able to pass on these higher costs to our customers, and if we insist on raising prices, our customers may curtail their purchases from us. The costs of energy and items directly related to the cost of energy will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, political conditions and the weather. Further increases in energy prices, raw material costs or the onset of inflationary pressures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our average sales prices have declined, and we anticipate that the average sales prices for our products will continue to decline and negatively impact our gross profit margins. Wireless service providers are continuing to place pricing pressure on wireless infrastructure manufacturers, which in turn, has resulted in lower selling prices for our products, with certain competitors aggressively reducing prices in an effort to increase their market share. The consolidation of original equipment manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens Networks has concentrated purchasing power at the surviving entities, placing further pricing pressures on the products we sell to such customers. Moreover, the recent recession and current economic uncertainty have caused wireless service providers to become more aggressive in demanding price reductions as they attempt to reduce costs. As a result, we are forced to further reduce our prices to such customers, which has negatively impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not agree to lower our prices as some customers request, those customers may stop purchasing our products, which would significantly impact our business. We believe that the average sales prices of our products will continue to decline for the foreseeable future. The weighted average sales price for our products declined in the range of 0% to 11%, depending on the product line, from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011 and we expect that this will continue going forward. Since wireless infrastructure manufacturers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we must often commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, we can obtain such cost reductions. In addition, average sales prices are affected by price discounts negotiated without firm orders for large volume purchases by certain customers. To offset declining average sales prices, we must reduce manufacturing costs and ultimately develop new products with lower costs or higher average sales prices. If we cannot achieve such cost reductions or increases in average selling prices, our gross margins will decline. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers could become competitors. Many of our customers, particularly our original equipment manufacturer customers, internally design and/or manufacture their own wireless communications network products. These customers also continuously evaluate whether to manufacture their own wireless communications network products or utilize contract manufacturers to produce their own internal designs. Certain of our customers regularly produce or design wireless communications network products in an attempt to replace products manufactured by us. In addition, some customers threaten to undertake such activities if we do not agree to their requested price reductions. We believe that these practices will continue. In the event that our customers manufacture or design their own wireless communications network products, these customers might reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products, which would result in reduced revenues and would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Wireless infrastructure equipment manufacturers with internal manufacturing capabilities, including many of our customers, could also sell wireless communications network products externally to other manufacturers, thereby competing directly with us. In addition, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may decide to produce competing products directly for our customers and, effectively, compete against us. If, for any reason, our customers produce their wireless communications network products internally, increase the percentage of their internal production, require us to participate in joint venture manufacturing with them, require us to reduce our prices, engage our suppliers or contract manufacturers to manufacture competing products, or otherwise compete directly against us, our revenues would decrease, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is tied to the growth of the wireless services communications market and our future revenue growth is dependent upon the expected increase in the size of this market. Our revenues come principally from the sale of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. Our future success depends upon the growth and increased availability of wireless communications services. Wireless communications services may not grow at a rate fast enough to create demand for our products, as we have experienced periodically throughout the past several years. In addition, some of our network operator customers rely heavily on the availability of credit to finance the build-out or expansion of their wireless networks. We believe that the ongoing economic weakness and uncertainty and constrained credit markets have resulted in lower demand for our products in fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011 and will likely result in a continuing reduction of demand from some of our customers in the near term. In 19 Table of Contents addition, during 2011 a major North America wireless network operator significantly reduced demand while it pursued plans for a significant acquisition. Another example of unanticipated reductions was during fiscal 2006 and into fiscal 2007, when a major North American wireless network operator significantly reduced demand for new products. In addition, during the same period, several major equipment manufacturers began a process of consolidating their operations, which significantly reduced their demand for our products. This reduced spending on wireless networks had a negative impact on our operating results. If wireless network operators delay or reduce levels of capital spending, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to risks of excess inventory or inventory carrying costs. We use contract manufacturers to produce printed circuit boards for our products, and in certain cases, to manufacture finished products. If our contract manufacturers are unable to respond in a timely fashion to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand, resulting in lost revenues. Alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. In the past, we have been required to take delivery of materials from our suppliers and subcontractors that were in excess of our requirements, and we have previously recognized charges and expenses related to such excess material. We expect that we will incur such costs in the future. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the use of all inventories is reduced because we do not have full operating control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers and manage the costs associated with our contract manufacturers, we may be required to purchase excess inventory and incur additional inventory carrying costs. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Future additions to, or consolidations of manufacturing operations may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals associated with such actions. We have previously added new manufacturing locations, as well as consolidated existing manufacturing locations, in an attempt to achieve operating cost savings and improved operating results. We continually evaluate these types of opportunities. We may acquire or invest in new locations, or we may consolidate existing locations into either existing or new locations in order to reduce our manufacturing costs. For example, in 2009, we established a new manufacturing location in Thailand. In addition, in February 2012, in response to a decline in revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced that we were developing a new restructuring plan targeted at reducing our operating and manufacturing cost structure. While we have not finalized the terms of the restructuring plan, it is possible that such plan may include the consolidation or closing manufacturing operations. The addition, consolidation or closing of manufacturing locations subjects us to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • difficulty integrating the new locations into our existing operations; • the possibility of severance costs and lease termination payments associated with consolidating or closing manufacturing facilities; • difficulty consolidating existing locations into one location; • inability to achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the specific new location or consolidation; • significant unanticipated additional costs incurred to start up a new manufacturing location; • inability to attract key technical and managerial personnel to a new location; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel due to the consolidation of locations to a new location; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business issues; and • failure of our review and approval process to identify significant issues, including issues related to manpower, raw material supplies, legal and financial contingencies. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any investment in a new manufacturing location or consolidation of locations, our business would be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Future acquisitions, or strategic alliances, may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals intended at the time of any acquisition or strategic alliance. In the past, we have acquired and made investments in other companies, products and technologies and entered into strategic alliances with other companies. We continually evaluate these types of opportunities. We may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies, or we may enter into joint ventures, mergers or strategic alliances with other companies. Such transactions subject us to numerous risks, including the following: • difficulty integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company; • inability to achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the specific acquisition or strategic alliance; • significant additional warranty costs due to product failures and or design differences that were not identified during due diligence, which could result in charges to earnings if they are not recoverable from the seller; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel from the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to product quality, product architecture, legal and financial contingencies, and product development; and • significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any acquisition or joint venture, our business would be adversely affected. We may fail to develop products that are sufficiently manufacturable, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Manufacturing our products is a complex process that requires significant time and expertise to meet customers’ specifications and expectations. Successful manufacturing is substantially dependent upon the ability to assemble and tune these products to meet specifications in an efficient manner. In this regard, we largely depend on our staff of assembly workers and trained technicians at our internal manufacturing operations in the U.S. and Asia, as well as our contract manufacturers’ staff of assembly workers and trained technicians. We have previously experienced problems in the manufacturing of new products where our actual costs have exceeded our expectations and our production yields have not met our internal expectations. Such issues have had a negative impact on gross margins and results of operations. If we cannot design our products to minimize the manual assembly and tuning process, or if we or our contract manufacturers lose a number of trained assembly workers and technicians or are unable to attract additional trained assembly workers or technicians, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a cost effective manner. If we are unable to hire and retain highly-qualified technical and managerial personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Competition for personnel, particularly qualified engineers, is intense. The loss of a significant number of qualified engineers, as well as the failure to recruit and train additional technical personnel in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us, or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may also have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our success depends upon the knowledge and experience of our management and technical personnel and our ability to market our existing products and to develop new products. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis and do not have non-compete agreements. Consequently, we have had employees leave us to work for competitors, and we may continue to experience this. There are significant risks related to our internal and contract manufacturing operations in Asia and Europe. As part of our manufacturing strategy, we utilize contract manufacturers to make finished goods and supply printed circuit boards in China, Europe, India, Singapore and Thailand. We also maintain our own manufacturing operations in China, the U.S. and Thailand. There are particular risks of doing business in each jurisdiction and to doing business in foreign jurisdictions generally. 21 Table of Contents For example, the Chinese legal system lacks transparency, which gives the Chinese central and local government authorities a higher degree of control over our business in China than is customary in the U.S., which makes the process of obtaining necessary regulatory approval in China inherently unpredictable. In addition, the protection accorded our proprietary technology and know-how under the Chinese and Thai legal systems is not as strong as in the U.S. and, as a result, we may lose valuable trade secrets and competitive advantage. Also, manufacturing our products and utilizing contract manufacturers, as well as other suppliers throughout the Asia region, exposes our business to the risk that our proprietary technology and ownership rights may not be protected or enforced to the extent that they may be in the U.S. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform and a policy of welcoming foreign investments during the past two decades, it is possible that the Chinese government will change its current policies in the future, making continued business operations in China difficult or unprofitable. As another example, in September 2006, Thailand experienced a military coup which overturned the existing government. In late 2008, anti-government protests and civilian occupations culminated with a court-ordered ouster of Thailand’s prime minister. In 2009 and 2010, continuing turmoil impacted the government of Thailand. To date, this has not had a significant impact on our operations in Thailand. In 2011, Thailand experienced significant flooding that disrupted many companies’ operations in Thailand. While we did not experience any direct disruptions, these types of natural disasters could impact our operations in the future. If there are future coups or some other type of political unrest, such activity may impact the ability to manufacture products in this region and may prevent shipments from entering or leaving the country. Any such disruptions could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we require air or ocean transport to deliver products built in our various manufacturing locations to our customers. High energy costs have increased our transportation costs which have had a negative impact on our production costs. Transportation costs would also escalate if there were a shortage of air or ocean cargo space and any significant increase in transportation costs would cause an increase in our expenses and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to obtain cargo space or secure delivery of components or products due to labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns or work stoppages by longshoremen, dock workers, airline pilots or other transportation industry workers, our delivery of products could be delayed. The initial sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy, often lasting from nine to eighteen months, which could cause delays in forecasted sales and cause us to incur substantial expenses before we record any associated revenues. Our customers normally conduct significant technical evaluations, trials and qualifications of our products before making purchase commitments. This qualification process involves a significant investment of time and resources from both our customers and us in order to ensure that our product designs are fully qualified to perform as required. The qualification and evaluation process, as well as customer field trials, may take longer and be more expensive than initially forecasted, thereby delaying the shipment of sales forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter and causing our operating results for the quarter to be less than originally forecasted. Such a sales shortfall would reduce our profitability and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business internationally, which exposes us to increased business risks. For fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, international revenues (excluding North American sales) accounted for approximately 60%, 63% and 73% of our net sales, respectively. There are many risks that currently impact, and will continue to impact, our international business and multinational operations, including the following: • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Europe, Asia and North and South America, including export requirements, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health and safety requirements; • potential labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns and work stoppages at U.S. and international ports; • differences in intellectual property protection rights throughout the world; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in Europe, Asia and South America, including relations with unionized labor pools in Europe and in Asia; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in Europe, Asia and South America; • currency fluctuations and resulting losses on currency translations; • terrorist attacks on American companies; • economic instability, including inflation and interest rate fluctuations, such as those previously seen in South Korea and Brazil; 22 Table of Contents • competition for foreign-based suppliers and from foreign-based competitors throughout the world; • overlapping or differing tax structures; • the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations and our potential inability to benefit/offset losses in one tax jurisdiction with income from another; • cultural and language differences between the U.S. and the rest of the world; and • political or civil turmoil, such as that occurring in Thailand. Any failure on our part to manage these risks effectively would seriously reduce our competitiveness in the wireless infrastructure marketplace. Protection of our intellectual property is limited. We rely upon trade secrets and patents to protect our intellectual property. We execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees and our suppliers, as well as limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have an ongoing program to identify and file applications for U.S. and other international patents. The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us, or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have non-compete agreements with our employees who are generally employed on an at-will basis. Therefore, we have had employees leave us and go to work for competitors and we may continue to experience this. If we are not successful in prohibiting the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or the use of our processes by a competitor, our competitive advantage may be significantly reduced which would result in reduced revenues. We are at risk of third-party claims of infringement that could harm our competitive position. We have received third-party claims of infringement in the past and have been able to resolve such claims without having a material impact on our business. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that we may face additional infringement claims. These claims, whether valid or not, could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources. A third-party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products, which would adversely affect our customer relationships and negatively impact our revenues. The communications industry is heavily regulated. We must obtain regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell our products, and our customers must obtain approvals to operate our products. Any failure or delay by us or any of our customers to obtain these approvals could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Various governmental agencies have adopted regulations that impose stringent radio frequency emissions standards on the communications industry. Future regulations may require that we alter the manner in which radio signals are transmitted or otherwise alter the equipment transmitting such signals. The enactment by governments of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations could negatively impact the market for our products. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for such products, generally following extensive investigation and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in this type of governmental approval process have caused, and may continue to cause, the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These types of unanticipated delays may result in delayed or canceled customer orders. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations concerning the manufacturing and use of our products. We must stay in compliance with all such regulations and any future regulations. Any failure to comply with such regulations, and the unanticipated costs of complying with future regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture and sell products which contain electronic components, and as such components may contain materials that are subject to government regulation in both the locations that we manufacture and assemble our products, as well as the locations where we sell our products. An example of a regulated material is the use of lead in electronic components. We maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning the materials utilized in our products, for all the locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is a complex process which requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. There are areas where future regulations may be enacted which could increase our 23 Table of Contents cost of the components that we utilize. While we do not currently know of any proposed regulation regarding components in our products, which would have a material impact on our business, if there is an unanticipated new regulation which significantly impacts our use of various components or requires more expensive components, that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing process is also subject to numerous governmental regulations, which cover both the use of various materials as well as environmental concerns. We maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning our production processes, for all locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is also a complex process which requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. There are areas where future regulations may be enacted which could increase our manufacturing costs. One area which has a large number of potential changes in regulations is the environmental area. Environmental areas such as pollution and climate change have had significant legislative and regulatory efforts on a global basis, and there are expected to be additional changes to the regulations in these areas. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products or utilize energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products. While future changes in regulations appears likely, we are currently unable to predict how any such changes will impact us and if such impacts will be material to our business. If there is a new law or regulation that significantly increases our costs of manufacturing or causes us to significantly alter the way that we manufacture our products, this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The wireless communications infrastructure equipment industry is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product development, rapid product obsolescence, evolving industry standards and significant price erosion over the life of a product. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our products compete on the basis of the following characteristics: • performance; • functionality; • reliability; • pricing; • quality; • designs that can be efficiently manufactured in large volumes; • time-to-market delivery capabilities; and • compliance with industry standards. If we fail to address one or more of the above factors in the design and manufacturing of our products, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current competitors include Comba Telecom Systems Holdings Ltd, CommScope, Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc., Japan Radio Co., Ltd., Kathrein-Werke KG, Radio Frequency Systems, and Tyco Electronics in addition to a number of privately held companies throughout the world, subsidiaries of certain multinational corporations and the internal manufacturing operations and design groups of the leading wireless infrastructure manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Huawei, Motorola, Nokia Siemens Networks and Samsung. Some competitors have adopted aggressive pricing strategies in an attempt to gain market share, which in turn, has caused us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive. Such pricing actions have had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and have achieved greater name recognition for their products and technologies than we have. If we are unable to successfully increase our market penetration or our overall share of the wireless communications infrastructure equipment market, our revenues will decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to enhance our existing products or to develop and introduce new products that meet changing customer requirements and evolving technological standards could have a negative impact on our ability to sell our products. To succeed, we must improve current products and develop and introduce new products that are competitive in terms of the various factors outlined in the risk factor above. These products must adequately address the requirements of wireless infrastructure manufacturing customers and end-users. To develop new products, we invest in the research and development 24 Table of Contents of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. We target our research and development efforts on major wireless network deployments worldwide, which cover a broad range of frequency and transmission protocols. In addition, we are currently working on products for next generation networks, as well as development projects for products requested by our customers and improvements to our existing products. The deployment of a wireless network may be delayed which could result in the failure of a particular research or development effort to generate a revenue producing product. Additionally, the new products we develop may not achieve market acceptance or may not be able to be manufactured cost effectively in sufficient volumes. Our research and development efforts are generally funded internally and our customers do not normally pay for our research and development efforts. These costs are expensed as incurred. Therefore, if our efforts are not successful at creating or improving products that are purchased by our customers, there will be a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to high research and development expenses. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from foreign affiliates, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize net operating losses and other carry-forwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruptions by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and a large portion of our U.S.-based research and development operations are located in the State of California in regions known for seismic activity. In addition, we have production facilities and have outsourced some of our production to contract manufacturers in Asia, another region known for seismic activity. In addition, we have a manufacturing location in Thailand, a country that suffered significant flooding during 2011. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flooding, in either of these regions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our Common Stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. Our Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. NASDAQ has adopted a number of continued listing standards that are applicable to the Common Stock, including a requirement that the bid price of the Common Stock be at least $1.00 per share. Failure to maintain the minimum bid price can result in the delisting of the Common Stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. The bid price for our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was below $1.00 for a significant period of time during fiscal 2009. In addition, during October 2011, the bid price of our Common Stock was again below $1.00. Effective October 28, 2011, we completed a 1-for-5 Reverse Stock Split of our issued and outstanding Common Stock that raised our price per share above $1.00. However, following the disclosure of our fourth quarter financial results, the bid price of our Common Stock is again near $1.00 per share and our Common Stock may be at risk of delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market unless we are able to take action to prevent such delisting. If our Common Stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our Common Stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by NASDAQ, or another over-the-counter market. Any such alternative would likely result in it being more difficult for investors to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our Common Stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that our Common Stock would be eligible for trading on any such alternative exchange or markets. In addition, delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital through the public or private sale of equity securities. Delisting from NASDAQ would also make trading our Common Stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price and inhibiting the ability of our stockholders to liquidate all or part of their investments in the Company. The price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our shareholders may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our Common Stock has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant volume and price fluctuations, which makes our Common Stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the three years ended January 25 Table of Contents 1, 2012, the closing price of our Common Stock ranged from a high of $25.25 to a low of $1.15 per share (as adjusted for the 1-for-5 share Reverse Stock Split). At times, the fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock may have been unrelated to our financial condition and operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in our results of operations or the operations of our competitors or customers; • the loss of a key customer or significant reductions in the amount or value of orders from key customers; • failure of our results of operations and sales revenues to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; • the aggregate amount of our outstanding debt and perceptions about our ability to make debt service payments; • reductions in wireless infrastructure demand or expectations regarding future wireless infrastructure demand by our customers; • delays or postponement of wireless infrastructure deployments, or larger than anticipated costs associated with such deployments; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our customers; • the timing and announcements of technological innovations, new products or financial results by us or our competitors; • increases in the number of shares of our Common Stock outstanding, including upon the conversion of outstanding debt securities; • changes in the wireless industry;. • changes in general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic and regulatory conditions. In addition, the potential conversion of our outstanding convertible debt and other instruments could result in a significant increase in the number of outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Such an increase may lead to sales of shares or the perception that sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our Common Stock. Any potential future sale or issuance of shares of our Common Stock or instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Based on the foregoing factors, we expect that our stock price will continue to be extremely volatile. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our investors will be able to resell our Common Stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. A material decline in the price of our Common Stock may result in the assertion of certain claims against us, and/or the commencement of inquiries and/or investigations against us. See Item 3 of Part I of this annual report under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” A prolonged decline in the price of our Common Stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our Common Stock or a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Any reduction in our ability to raise equity capital in the future may force us to allocate funds from other planned uses and could have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations. Issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon conversion of our outstanding convertible instruments and future sales of our Common Stock could adversely affect our Common Stock price. As of February 21, 2012, an aggregate of 3,447,305 shares of our Common Stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, and an additional 2,856,530 shares of our Common Stock were reserved for the issuance of additional options and shares under these plans. Furthermore an aggregate of 3,444,315 shares of our Common Stock were issuable upon conversion of our 3.875% Notes, and an aggregate of 6,406,150 shares of our Common Stock were issuable upon conversion of our 2.75% Notes. Future sales of our Common Stock and instruments convertible or exchangeable into our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, this may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at an appropriate time and price. 26 Table of Contents Certain provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws, as amended, are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing shareholder value. These provisions may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or our management. For example, our bylaws provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors or certain officers, and may not be called by our stockholders. In addition, our bylaws provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before, or nominate candidates for election as directors at, a meeting of stockholders must provide advanced notice to us in writing and must provide specified information. Our certificate of incorporation grants our board of directors the authority to issue preferred stock, which could potentially be used to discourage attempts by third parties to obtain control of us through a merger, tender offer, proxy or consent solicitation or otherwise, by making those attempts more difficult to achieve or more costly. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which continues to apply to us, prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with an “interested stockholder” (as defined in such section) for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder without the prior consent of our board of directors. This section, as well as certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 