D. Risk Factors See the discussion regarding forward-looking statements at page 1. In addition to the other information contained herein, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating an investment in the Company’s common shares: Risks Associated with the Mining Industry Speculative Nature of the Mining Industry The gold mining industry is highly speculative in nature. There is no assurance that Richmont Mines’ mineral development and exploration activities will be successful. Success in increasing reserves is a result of a number of factors, including the Company’s level of geological and technical expertise, the geological composition of land available for exploration and other factors. Once gold mineralization is discovered, it may take several years to identify, delineate and evaluate resources, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable reserves through drilling, to determine the optimal metallurgical process to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result of these uncertainties, no assurance can be given that the Company’s exploration programs will result in the expansion or replaceme nt of current reserves with new reserves. 5 Mining Risks Because it holds interests in several mines, the Company is subject to risks and hazards inherent to the mining industry, including: fluctuations in commodity prices; costs of constructing and operating a mine as well as processing and refining facilities in a specific environment; availability of economical sources of energy and an adequate supply of water; adequate access to the site, including competing land uses and unanticipated transportation costs, delays and repair costs resulting from equipment failure; data on which engineering assumptions are made; changes in the regulatory environment (including regulations relating to prices, royalties, duties, taxes, restrictions on production, quotas on exportation of minerals, as well as the costs of protection of the environment and agricultural lands); industrial accidents and labor actions or unrest; unusual or unexpected geological or geotechnical formations; unanticipated ground or water conditions; slope failure, rock bursts, cave-ins, failure of pitwalls or dams and fire; environmental hazards, including discharge of pollutants or hazardous chemicals; unanticipated grade and tonnage of ore to be mined and processed; unusual or unexpected adverse operating conditions; hazards involved in the drilling and mining of ore; availability of qualified workforce; natural phenomena and “acts of God”, such as inclement weather conditions, floods, earthquakes and other phenomena. The occurrence of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect a project and as a result materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. These factors may cause a mineral deposit that has been mined profitably in the past to become unprofitable. Also, it is not unusual in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, and delays can often occur in the commencement of production. No assurance can be given that current exploration programs will result in any commercial mining operation. The processing of ore may subject Richmont Mines to liability under environmental legislation resulting from a failure to maintain dams around tailing disposal areas. Richmont Mines may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or other hazards against which it cannot insure, due to political or other reasons, or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or for other reasons. This can result in delayed production, increase in production costs or liability. Paying compensation for obligations resulting from such liability may be very costly and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. 6 Failure to Achieve Production Estimates The ore reserves presented in this Annual Report are in large part estimates, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating proven and probable reserves including many factors beyond the Company’s control. The estimation of reserves is a complex and subjective process and the accuracy of any such estimate is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and of the assumptions made and judgments used in engineering and geological interpretation. Reserve estimates may require revision based on various factors such as actual production experience, exploration results, market price fluctuations of gold, results of drilling, metallurgical testing, production costs or recovery rates. These factors may render the proven and probable reserves unprofitable to develop at a particular property or for a specific mine. An y material reduction in estimates of the Company’s reserves or its ability to extract these reserves could have a material adverse effect on its future cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Also, the grade of ore mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results, and this variation may have an adverse impact on production results. In addition, the reliability of estimates of future production might also be affected by factors such as weather, strikes and environmental occurrences. The Company’s failure to achieve its production estimates could have a material and adverse effect on any or all of the Company’s future cash flows, results of operation and financial condition. The Company’s annual production estimates are developed based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of production. Actual production may vary from estimates for a variety of reasons, including risks and hazards of the types discussed above. Additional Reserves for Gold Production Because mines have limited lives based on the production of proven and probable reserves, the Company must continually perform exploration and development to replace and expand its reserves as they are depleted. The Company’s ability to maintain or increase its annual production of gold will be dependent in significant part on its ability to bring certain projects into production and to expand existing operations. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in any exploration program relating to, amongst other things, the location of economic mineral reserves, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities and the appropriate financing thereof. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Company’s exploration programs will yield new mineral reserves to replace mined reserves and to expand current mineral reserves. 7 Exploration and Development Risks The exploration process generally begins with the identification and appraisal of mineral prospects. Exploration and development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Mining projects frequently require a number of years and significant expenditures during the mine development phase before production is possible. Development projects are subject to the completion of successful feasibility studies and environmental assessments, issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors such as: estimation of reserves; anticipated metallurgical recoveries; environmental considerations and permitting; future gold prices; and anticipated capital and operating costs of such projects. Exploration and development of mineral deposits thus involve significant financial risks which a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. A mine must generate sufficient revenues to offset operating and development costs such as the costs required to establish reserves by drilling, to develop metallurgical processes, to construct facilities and to extract and process metals from the ore. Once in production, it is impossible to determine whether current exploration and development programs at any given mine will result in the establishment of new reserves. Fluctuations in Gold Prices and Currencies (see “Information on the Company – Gold Marketing and Sales”) The profitability of the Company is directly related to the market price of gold. Gold prices fluctuate considerably and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, such as industrial and jewellery demand, inflation and expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the strength of the U.S. dollar and of other currencies, interest rates, gold sales by central banks, forward sales by producers, production and cost levels, changes in investment trends and international monetary systems and the effect of changes in the supply and demand for gold on public and private markets. The gold market is characterized by significant above-ground reserves which can dramatically affect the price should a portion of these reserves be brought to market. Gold price is sometimes subject to rapid short-term changes because of speculative activities. If gold prices were to decline significantly or for an extended period of time, the Company might be unable to continue i ts operations, develop its properties or fulfill its obligations under its agreements with its partners or under its permits and licenses. As a result, the Company might lose its interest in, or be forced to sell, some of its properties. 8 The following table sets out the annual average gold price (London PM fix) in U.S. and CAN dollars over the past five years: (US$) Exchange rate (CAN$) 2005 444 1.21 537 2006 604 1.13 683 2007 695 1.07 744 2008 872 1.07 933 2009 972 1.14 1,108 When calculating its Mineral Reserve estimates, the estimated price of gold used by the Company was CAN$800 per ounce in 2009 for its Francoeur Project and CAN$850 per ounce in 2009 for its other mines. In the event of a sustained, significant drop in gold price, the Company may be required to re-evaluate its assets, resulting in reduced estimates of reserves and in material write-downs of the Company’s investment in mining properties and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges. Furthermore, since gold price is established in U.S. dollars, a significant increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar coupled with stable or declining gold prices could adversely affect Richmont Mines’ results with respect to gold revenues. Richmont Mines has no gold hedging contracts and no U.S. dollar exchange contracts. However, the Company may engage in hedging activities in the future. Hedging activities are intended to protect a company from the fluctuations of the price of gold and to minimize the effect of declines in gold prices on results of operations for a period of time. Although hedging activities may protect a company against low gold prices, they may also limit the price that can be realized on gold that is subject to forward sales and call options where the market price of gold exceeds the gold price in a forward sale or call option contract. Also, the Company may in the future, if it considers it advisable, enter into hedging arrangements with a view to reducing some risks associated with foreign exchange exposure. However, there is no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful or that foreign exchange fluctuations will not materially adversely affect the Company's financial perfor mance and results of operations. Competition The mining industry is intensely competitive and the Company is in competition with other mining companies for the acquisition of interests in precious and other metal or mineral mining properties. In the pursuit of such acquisition opportunities, the Company competes with other Canadian and foreign companies that may have substantially greater financial and other resources. As a result of this competition, the Company may be unable to maintain or acquire attractive mining properties on acceptable terms, or at all. Although the Company has acquired many such assets in the past, there can be no assurance that its acquisition efforts will succeed in the future. Title to Properties While the Company has verified title to its properties according to customary industry standards for the stage of development of such properties, the procedures undertaken do not guarantee the Company’s title. Properties may be subject to prior registered and unregistered agreements, transfers or aboriginal land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. In addition, transfers of title to certain properties of the Company are in the process of being completed. There may be valid challenges to the title of the Company’s properties which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. Moreover, where the Company’s interest in a property is less than 100%, the Company’s entitlement to, and obligations in respect of, the property are subject to the terms of the agreement relating to that property, which in certain circumstances may be the subject of differing interpretations between the parties to that agreement. 9 Laws and Regulations The Company’s mining operations and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, agricultural zoning, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. The Canadian mining industry is subject to federal and provincial environmental protection legislation. This legislation sets high standards on the mining industry in order to reduce or eliminate the effects of waste generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently emitted into the air or water. Consequently, drilling, refining, extracting and milling are all subject to the restrictions imposed by such legislation. In addition, the construction and commercial operation of a mine typically entail compliance with applicable environmental legislation and review processes, as well as the obtaining of permits, particularly for the use of the land, permits for the use of water, and similar authorizations from various governmental bodies. Compliance with such laws and regulations increases the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating and closing mines and other facilities. No assurance can be given that additional significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred to comply with current and future requirements. All of the Company’s operations are subject to reclamation, site restoration and closure requirements. Costs related to ongoing site restoration programs are expensed when incurred. The Company calculates its estimates of the ultimate reclamation liability based on current laws and regulations and the expected future costs to be incurred in reclaiming, restoring and closing its operating mine sites. It is possible that the Company’s estimates of its ultimate reclamation liability could change as a result of possible changes in laws and regulations and changes in cost estimates. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in enforcement actions thereunder, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may become subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties for violations of applicable laws or regulations. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with all current laws and regulations material to its activities. However, new or expanded environmental regulations, if adopted, or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations, could affect the Company’s projects or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its operations. As a result, expenditures on any and all projects, actual production quantities and rates and cash operating costs, among other things, may be materially and adversely affected and may differ materially from anticipated expenditures, production quantities and rates, and costs, and estimated production dates may be delayed materially, in each case. Any such event would materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 10 Insurance The Company carries insurance against property damage and comprehensive general liability insurance for all operations. It is also insured against gold and silver bullion thefts and losses of goods in transit. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. No assurance can be provided that such insurance will continue to be available, will be at economically acceptably premiums or will be adequate to cover any liability. In some cases, risk coverage is not available or considered too expensive relative to the perceived risk. Risks not insured against include mine cave-ins, mine flooding or other comparable hazards. Furthermore, there are risks attributable to most types of environmental pollution against which the Company cannot insure or against which it has elected not to insure. Requirement of Additional Financing The continuing development of the Company’s properties will depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain financing through the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, and equity financing or other means. No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Permits and Licenses Mineral exploration and mining activities may only be conducted by entities that have obtained or renewed exploration or mining permits and licenses in accordance with the relevant mining laws and regulations. No guarantee can be given that the necessary exploration and mining permits and licenses will be issued to the Company or, if they are issued, that they will be renewed, or that the Company will be in a position to comply with all conditions that are imposed. Nearly all mining projects require government approval. No assurance can be given that these approvals will be granted to the Company in a timely manner, or at all. Joint Ventures No assurance can be given that the Company’s joint venture partners will not veto the Company’s business plans, with regard to a specific joint venture, and prevent the Company from achieving its objectives. 11 Mining projects are often conducted through an unincorporated joint venture or an incorporated joint venture company. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions, such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, including indebtedness and the pledge of the joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party has a veto right with respect to such decisions, which could in turn lead to a deadlock. Dependence on Personnel The Company’s ability to manage growth effectively will require the Company to continue to implement and improve the Company’s management systems and to recruit and train new employees. Although the Company has done so in the past, no assurance can be given that it will be successful in attracting and retraining skilled and experienced personnel. Risks Inherent in Acquisitions The Company is actively pursuing the acquisition of advanced exploration, development and production assets consistent with its acquisition and growth strategy. From time to time, the Company may also acquire securities of or other interests in companies with respect to which the Company may enter into acquisition or other transactions. Acquisition transactions involve inherent risks, including, without limitation: accurately assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; ability to achieve identified and anticipated operating and financial synergies; unanticipated costs; diversion of management attention from existing business; potential loss of key employees or the key employees of any business the Company acquires; unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition; and decline in the value of acquired properties, companies or securities. Any one or more of these factors or other risks could cause the Company not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of properties or companies, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to grow and on the Company’s financial condition. While the Company continues to seek acquisition opportunities consistent with its acquisition and growth strategy, no assurance can be given that it will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates available for sale at reasonable prices, to consummate any acquisition, or to integrate any acquired business into its operations successfully. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, circumstances or legal liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to acquire properties and companies, the Company could use available cash, incur debt, issue common shares or other securities, or a combination of any one or more of these. This could limit the Company’s flexibility to raise additional capital, to operate, explore and develop its properties and to make additional acquisitions, and could further dilute and decrease the trading price of the common shares. When evaluating an acquisition opportunity, the Company cannot be certain that it will have correctly identified and managed the risks and costs inherent in the business that it is acquiring. 12 From time to time, the Company engages in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions. At any given time, discussions and activities can be in process on a number of initiatives, each at different stages of development. No assurance can be given that any potential transaction will be successfully completed, and, if completed, that the business acquired will be successfully integrated into the Company’s operations. If the Company fails to manage its acquisition and growth strategy successfully it could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to the Company’s common shares Fluctuation in share price The market price of the Company’s common shares may fluctuate due to a variety of factors relating to the Company’s business, including the announcement of expanded exploration, development and production activities by Richmont Mines and its competitors, gold price volatility, exchange rate fluctuations, consolidations, dispositions, acquisitions and financings, changes or restatements in the amount of the Company’s mineral reserves, fluctuations in the Company’s operating results, sales of the Company’s common shares in the marketplace, failure to meet analysts’ expectations, changes in quarterly revenue or earnings estimates made by the investment community, speculation in the press or investment community about Richmont Mines’ strategic position, results of operations, business or significant transactions and general conditions in the mining industry or the worldwide economy. No assurance can be given that the market price of the Company 46;s common shares will not continue to experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to the Company’s performance. Sales of common shares Sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common shares, or the availability of the Company’s common shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for the Company’s outstanding common shares. A decline in the market price of the Company’s outstanding common shares could impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should the Company desire to do so. Equity financing The Company may require additional funds to fund its capital expenditures programs and potential acquisitions. If the Company raises additional funding by issuing additional equity securities, such financing may substantially dilute the interests of its existing shareholders. Existing agreements provide for additional issuances of common shares The Company may issue additional common shares in the future pursuant to existing agreements. 13 Dividend policy The Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its common shares since its incorporation. Richmont Mines has no current plans to pay dividends on its common shares. Its present policy is to retain earnings to finance its capital expenditures program. The Board of Directors assesses its dividend policy on a yearly basis. In the future, the Board of Directors may declare dividends according to its assessment of the financial position of the Company, taking into account its financing requirements for future growth and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant in the circumstances. 