ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our indebtedness, ability to repay or refinance, could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. The Company's loan agreement with Bank of America, N.A., which governs our revolving line of credit and $15 million term loan, expires June 30, 2010. As a result, the $15.0 million term loan is due and payable in full on that date. The Company does not anticipate that it will have sufficient cash on hand on that date to pay off the term loan, or, if at all, without dedicating all or substantially all of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby substantially reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, sales and marketing initiatives and general corporate or other purposes. As a result, the Company is exploring options available to it to refinance the debt, or to raise additional funds through private equity or debt financing, sales of assets, or other strategic alternatives. These funds may not be available, or if available, we may not be able to obtain them on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to refinance the debt or raise sufficient additional funds, our business could materially suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. If we sell certain assets of the Company to satisfy our obligations, that may materially reduce our revenues in the future, which, to the extent not offset by cost reductions or revenue from new or existing customers, could materially reduce our cash flows and adversely affect our financial position. This may limit our ability to raise capital or fund our operations, working capital needs and capital expenditures in the future. Our loan agreement contains covenants that require us to satisfy certain criteria. The loan agreement with Bank of America, N.A. contains certain covenants regarding limitations on debt, liens, fundamental changes, acquisitions, transfers of assets, investments, loans, guarantees, use of proceeds and capital expenditures. In addition, the loan agreement contains certain financial covenants. We were not in compliance with certain of the financial covenants of the loan agreement for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. As a result, effective March 1, 2010, we executed an amendment to the loan agreement whereby Bank of America waived such financial covenant defaults on a one-time basis, waived compliance with such financial covenants for the Company's first quarter of 2010, and further amended the loan agreement to, among other things, (i) lower the revolving line of credit from $10.0 million to $3.75 million, (ii) make all future advances under the line subject to the lender's discretion, (iii) further limit our ability to obtain letters of credit, (iv) require us to pledge additional cash collateral totaling $3.5 million for the remaining term of the loan agreement no later than June 15, 2010, and (v) require us to provide additional financial reporting to the bank on a monthly basis. Failure to comply with any of these terms could constitute an event of default that would permit the lender to accelerate the loans upon their occurrence, which could have a material adverse effect on 15 Table of Contents our operating results and cash flows. We cannot assure that in the future we will be able to achieve, maintain or satisfy these obligations under the loan agreement or obtain a waiver from Bank of America in the event we fail to comply. We have limited resources and our inability to obtain additional financing could negatively affect our growth and success. Our current cash flow and capital resources are limited, and we require additional funds to pursue our business. We may not be able to secure further financing in the future. If we are not able to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategy, conduct our operations at the level desired, or even to continue business. Our "report of registered public accounting firm" indicates substantial doubt about out ability to continue as a going concern. Our "report of registered public accounting firm" on our financial statements indicates that our recurring losses from operations, working capital deficit and maturing term loan raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial results have varied, and may continue to vary, significantly from quarter to quarter and we may fail to meet expectations, which might negatively impact our business and the price of our stock. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: •timing of customer orders; •timing and mix of product sales; •seasonality of product sales; •timing of the introduction of new products; •the duration of the sales cycle for our systems business; •our ability to meet the performance criteria under our agreements with our customers; •general economic conditions, both in the United States and overseas; and •specific economic conditions in our industry and markets. These factors have limited our ability to forecast our sales volume and product mix, making it difficult to provide estimates of revenues and operating results. These factors also make it difficult to use our quarterly results as a predictor of future operations. Historically, more than half of each quarter's revenues are shipped during the third month of a quarter, and disproportionately in the latter half of that month. These factors make revenue forecasting inherently uncertain. We continue to have limited visibility into the capital spending plans of our current and prospective customers. Fluctuations in our revenue can lead to even greater fluctuations in operating results. Our planned expense levels depend, in part, on revenue expectations, but significant portions of our expenses are not variable in the short term. Our planned expenses include significant investments in research and development necessary to develop products to be sold to current and prospective customers, even though we are unsure of the volume, duration, or timing of any purchase orders. Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast revenue and operating results, and a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period's results to be substantially below expectations. If our revenue or operating results are below expectations, that could materially and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Furthermore, failure to meet investor and market analyst expectations could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our recent financial results may continue to impact our ability to secure satisfactory bonding arrangements, which could adversely affect revenues. In the normal course of our business activities, we are required under certain contracts with various government authorities to provide letters of credit and bonds that may be drawn upon if we fail to perform under our contracts. A number of factors can limit the availability of such bonds, including a company's financial condition and operating results, a company's record for completing similar systems contracts in the past and the extent to which a company has bonds in place for other projects. Bonds, which expire on various dates, totaled approximately $2.4 million at December 31, 2009, and, as of such date, no bonds have been drawn upon. While we have not had a customer declare a default, a customer could declare an event of default under an outstanding bond related to a system contract. In such event, the issuer of our bonds could reduce the maximum amount of bond coverage available to us, or impose additional restrictions with respect to the issuance of bonds on our behalf. Our inability to secure bonding arrangements when needed would adversely affect our ability to be awarded new systems installation contracts, which would adversely affect our revenues. Our recent financial results may also impact customers' decisions in awarding new systems contracts where long-term warranties or service commitments are required. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If these conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Additionally, these conditions could negatively impact our ability to refinance the current debt with Bank of America and other strategic financing alternatives that we are pursuing. Any inability to obtain adequate financing from debt and equity sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forego some opportunities, potentially harming our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Demand for our products and services are vulnerable to economic downturns. If general economic conditions continue to weaken, then our revenues and our financial condition may materially decline. We are vulnerable to general downturns in the economy. Due to the ongoing economic downturn, demand for our products and services may decrease as our customers face a deterioration of their funding sources or decide to delay spending out of uncertainty regarding the future. A continued deterioration of the economy could result in the following risks to our business: •declines in revenues and profitability from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers; •reprioritization of government spending away from defense and homeland security programs in which we participate; •adverse impacts on our access to credit sources; and •supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our vendors. A significant portion of our sales have been, and will continue to be, to federal, state and local government agencies, both directly or indirectly, through system integrators and other resellers. Sales to government contractors and government agencies could decline as a result of spending cuts and general budgetary constraints which may become more frequent as tax revenues decline due to the continued weakening of general economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents Our sales are substantially concentrated in public sector markets that inherently possess additional risks that could harm revenues and gross margins. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to federal, state, and local governments, both directly or through system integrators and other resellers. Sales to these government entities present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions due to appropriation and spending patterns, changes in government personnel, political factors and the government's reservation of the right to cancel contracts for its convenience. The bidding cycle for a request for proposal, or RFP, and contract award stage can take six months to two years before a contract is awarded and the government funding process for these systems can delay the bidding cycle as well. We expect that sales to government entities will increasingly be subject to competitive bidding requirements. This intensified competition may result in lower prices, longer sales cycles and lower margins. Further, our sales to these domestic public safety and public service entities can be substantially attributed to Project 25 interoperability mandates and homeland security initiatives. Changes in governmental budget priorities could result in decreased opportunities for us to sell into this market segment. Additionally, certain industry initiatives, such as the rebanding initiative, are expected to wind down by the end of 2011. We depend on federal government contracts for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of federal government contracts or a decline in funding of existing or future government contracts could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. A substantial portion of our revenues is dependent upon continued funding of federal government agencies, as well as continued funding of the programs targeted by us. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination for convenience by the government, as well as termination, reduction, or modification in the event of budgetary constraints or any change in the government's requirements. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs, may be subject to audits by the U.S. government that may result in recalculation of contract revenues and non-reimbursement of some contract costs and fees. In addition, when we act as a subcontractor, the failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its prime contract may result in an inability to obtain payment of fees and contract costs. In addition, government contract awards can be contested by other competing contractors, which may result in delays in the commencement of our performance and receipt of payments for our work under such contracts. U.S. government contracts are dependent upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take several years. Consequently, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. Any failure of such agencies to continue to fund such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies to shift their spending priorities, reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or exercise their right not to renew contracts, all of which may limit our ability to obtain or maintain contract awards. Any of the aforementioned actions above could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents We carry substantial quantities of inventories. We carry a significant amount of inventories to service customer requirements in a timely manner. If we are unable to sell these inventories over a commercially reasonable time, we may be required to take inventory markdowns in the future, which could reduce our gross margins. In addition, it is critical to our success that we accurately predict trends in customer demand in the future and do not overstock unpopular products or fail to sufficiently stock popular products. Both scenarios could harm our operating results. Our reliance on third-party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We use contract manufacturers to manufacture our products, in some cases on a sole or limited source basis. In addition, a substantial portion of the hardware components for our products, including integrated circuits, printed circuit boards, connectors, cables, power supplies, and certain RF modules, are obtained on a sole or limited source basis from third-party suppliers, including third-party suppliers located in foreign countries. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers. For example: •if a supplier fails to provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities to meet demand, then production and sale of our products may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected; •if a supplier disagrees with our assessment that the supplier products do not meet specifications, we may incur additional costs associated with disputed products; •if a reduction or an interruption in the supply of our components should occur, either because a supplier fails to provide parts on a timely basis, a supplier provides parts that later prove to be defective or a single-source supplier elects to no longer provide those components to us, it could take us a considerable period of time to identify and qualify alternative suppliers to redesign our products as necessary and to begin manufacture of the redesigned components or we may not be able to redesign such components; •if we were unable to locate a supplier for a key component, we may be unable to identify an alternative component and therefore may be unable to complete and deliver our products; •one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in their product offerings, which might delay delivery, suspend manufacturing or increase the cost of our components or systems; •some of our key suppliers are small companies with limited financial and other resources, and consequently may be more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies that could result in the interruption or termination of the supply of critical components; and •some of our suppliers are located in foreign countries which may be subject to economic or political uncertainty. Our products must meet demanding specifications and must perform reliably. Delays in product shipments and acceptances adversely affect our revenues and margins. Our products and planned successor products are based upon certain processors manufactured from multiple suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease providing these processors, or suffer delays or cancel the development of enhancements to its processors, our product revenue could be adversely affected. Changing our product designs to utilize another supplier's integrated circuits would be a costly and time-consuming process. 19 Table of Contents If the quality of our products does not meet our customers' expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be adversely affected. The products we sell are subject to quality and reliability issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, components provided by our suppliers or partners, or from the software used in the product. Issues may be identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in shipping products to customers, or even the cancellation of orders by customers. We may discover or may be informed of quality issues in the products after they have been shipped to our distributors or end-user customers, requiring us to resolve such issues in a timely manner that is the least disruptive to our customers. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues could have legal and financial ramifications, including: delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, customer-imposed penalties on us for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and brand name reputation. We may be required to offset future deferred tax assets with a valuation allowance. During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we conducted an analysis of our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets. As a result of this analysis, we changed the valuation allowance relating to our increased deferred tax assets resulting in a $5.0 million increase to the valuation allowance. If we fail to achieve revenue growth rates or gross margins assumed in the calculation of our deferred tax assets, we may be required to offset future deferred tax assets with a valuation allowance, resulting in an additional tax expense. The change in the valuation may have a material impact on future results. If we do not achieve sufficient domestic federal taxable income in future years to utilize all or some of our net operating loss carryforwards, they will expire. Reduced access to Motorola's technology could harm our business and operations. We have obtained from Motorola a non-exclusive, worldwide license to manufacture products containing certain proprietary wireless radio and digital encryption technology. We believe this technology will be important to the success of certain of our existing and proposed Project 25 compliant wireless radio products. The license includes rights to use Motorola's proprietary analog APCO 16 trunking technology (SmartNet®/SmartZone®) and Project 25 required products. The digital encryption technology may also be incorporated into certain other secured communications products. In addition, we obtained a license to utilize certain proprietary technology from Motorola relating to the development of Project 25 compliant digital wireless radios. This license covers infrastructure and other Project 25 technology. Any termination of these licensing arrangements would significantly harm our business and operations. Our future success will depend upon our ability, and our having the resources available, to respond to the rapidly evolving technology and customer requirements in the markets in which we operate. The markets in which we compete are rapidly evolving as a result of changing technology, industry standards and customer requirements. Our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to anticipate and react to these changes in a timely manner. We may not have adequate capital or human resources to respond to these changes. Technological developments in the digital wireless radio industry include the use of digital trunking, digital simulcast and digital voting technologies. Also, the standards under which we develop our products, such as the 802.11 standards, are rapidly evolving. These technologies have led a number of manufacturers to change the architectures and methodologies used in designing, developing and implementing large wireless radio systems. In order for us to develop and integrate these new technologies and standards into our products, we have made a substantial investment in fixed assets 20 Table of Contents and human resources. However, due to our limited capital resources, we have significantly reduced expenditures for on-going research and development, delaying and/or cancelling certain research and development projects. There can be no assurance that sufficient resources will be readily available to us in the future, and our failure to incorporate these technologies into our wireless radio products could place our wireless radio products at a competitive disadvantage. This situation could possibly make our hand-held and mobile wireless radios incompatible with systems developed by other manufacturers, which would have a material adverse effect on us. The products as complex as those under development by us frequently are subject to delays, and we cannot ensure that we will not encounter difficulties, such as the inability to assign a sufficient number of quality software and hardware engineers to key projects or other unanticipated causes, that could delay or prevent the successful and timely development, introduction and marketing of new products or required product features. In addition, our products are implemented by certain third-party hardware and software. We cannot ensure that we will be able to design, have manufactured, or procure from third parties, the hardware and software necessary to successfully implement our new products and applications. In addition, part of our success depends on our ability to commercialize our custom solutions to enable us to sell such solutions to other customers, including government and commercial users. We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect revenues, gross margins and profitability. Our industry and markets are highly competitive. Motorola and Harris hold dominant and entrenched market positions in the domestic public safety and service market for wireless communication products. In addition, these competitors have financial, technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources substantially greater than our resources. Finally, these competitors have established trade names, trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights and substantial technological capabilities. These advantages may allow such competitors to: •respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; •manage more extensive research and development programs; •undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns; •engage in more aggressive merger and acquisition strategies; and •adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Also, we could lose some of our competitive advantage if our competitors obtain common criteria and FIPS 140-2 validation for their products. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances that we will be able to continue to compete effectively in our markets, that competition will not intensify, or that future competition from existing or from new competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross margins or profitability. The loss of certain of our key personnel and any future potential losses of key personnel or our failure to attract additional personnel could seriously harm our company. We have continued our efforts to reduce costs by eliminating certain employee positions and / or leaving some positions unfilled. As a result, we rely upon the continued service of a relatively small number of key technical, sales and senior management personnel. Our future success depends on retaining our key employees and our ability to retain, attract and train other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Our employees can typically resign with little or no prior notice. Our loss of certain of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, and the intellectual capital that they possess, or our inability to retain, attract and train additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately or license technology from third parties, we could lose our competitive advantage. Our ability to compete effectively against competing technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future technology, product designs and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. Although we assess the advisability of patenting any technological development, we have historically relied on copyright and trade secret law, as well as employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary intellectual property and rights. The protection afforded by such means may not be as complete as patent protection. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect trade secrets. In the event that our proprietary rights prove inadequate to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may: •independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; •otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or •design around our patents or other intellectual property. In addition, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or renew licenses or technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property rights, such as a technology licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be within our control. If the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the related products. If we are subject to litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries. There may be patents or patent applications in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. The technology that we incorporate into and use to develop and manufacture our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. The success of our technology efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. While we have no currently pending claims, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or contract claims. Receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our technology efforts. If a successful claim were brought against us, we may be required to license the intellectual property right from the claimant or to spend time and money to design around or avoid the intellectual property. Any such license may not be available at reasonable terms, or at all. We may be involved in future lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations. In addition, litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: •assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights; •protect our trade secrets or know-how; or •determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or those of others. 22 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses to other parties' intellectual property rights. We may also be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing, marketing or selling a product or service that we develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may have to participate in proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark office, or before foreign patent and trademark offices, with respect to our patents, patent applications, trademarks or trademark applications or those of others. These actions may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Furthermore, these actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products and services on which our business strategy depends. Unfavorable government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. The federal government audits and reviews our performance on awards, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Like most large government vendors, our awards are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Management Agency and the Defense Contract Audit Agency. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could result in an adjustment in the current period operating results. For example, any costs which were originally reimbursed could subsequently be disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded and our operating margins may be reduced. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, even if the allegations were not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the U.S. Government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with U.S. Government agencies were impaired, or if the Government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. We may be liable for penalties under a variety of federal procurement rules and regulations, and changes in such rules and regulations could adversely impact our revenues, operating expenses and profitability. Parts of our business must comply with and may be affected by government regulations that impact our operating costs and profit margins, as well as our internal organization and operation. The most significant regulations are: •the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts, including our GSA contract; •the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act.; and •the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards. These regulations affect how we and our customers do business and, in some instances, impose added costs. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or any changes in applicable laws could result in contract termination, price reduction, customer reimbursement, contract suspension or debarment 23 Table of Contents from contracting with the U.S. Government. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial performance. Our failure to comply with, or changes in, governmental regulation could adversely affect our business and operations. Our products, and the spectrum within which these products are used, are subject to regulation by domestic and foreign laws and international treaties, as are our customers. In particular, our wireless radio products are regulated by the FCC. The regulatory environment is uncertain. Changes in the regulatory structure, laws or regulations, or in the use or allocation of spectrum, could adversely affect us or our customers. Such changes could make our existing or planned products obsolete or not sellable in one or more markets, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our failure to comply in the future with applicable regulations could result in penalties on us, such as fines, operational restrictions, or a temporary or permanent closure of our facilities. If the current Project 25 standard is supplanted by some other recommended protocol or is otherwise not supported or mandated by the federal, state and local government agencies, it would adversely affect our operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 1995, APCO promulgated a new recommended standard known as Project 25. Our land mobile radio marketing and research and development efforts are substantially focused on Project 25 standard compliant equipment. We believe that sales of our Project 25 digital wireless radio products have been, and will continue in the foreseeable future to be, substantially dependent upon Motorola's dominant position as a market leader in the Project 25 marketplace. Motorola is the largest manufacturer of Project 25 compliant wireless radio products and has been the principal public supporter of the Project 25 digital transmission standard for the wireless radio market. If Motorola does not continue to support the standard, or if the Project 25 standard is otherwise abandoned by industry and government public safety and public service users, it would adversely affect our operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, if the industry materially accelerates its movement towards Phase II, the next generation of the APCO Project 25 standard, to the degree that our development efforts cannot keep pace with Phase II compliant equipment, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Business, political, regulatory, or economic changes in foreign countries in which we market our products or services could adversely affect our revenues. Although our sales have historically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of international currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may affect the price, competitiveness, economic attractiveness, and, ultimately, profitability of our products sold in international markets. Furthermore, the uncertainty of monetary exchange values has caused, and may in the future cause, some foreign customers to delay new orders or delay payment for existing orders. Additionally, troubled economic conditions, in regions and nations to which we presently market, could result in lower revenues for us. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, international sales constituted approximately 12%, 7% and 4% of revenues, respectively, most of which involve our land mobile radios for 2009 and 2008 and our higher margin analog encryption products for 2007. While many of the international sales are supported by irrevocable letters of credit or cash in advance and thereby pose little credit risk, our international business could be adversely affected by a variety of factors presenting increased risks to profitability. These factors include: •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •tariffs and other trade barriers; 24 Table of Contents •political and economic instability in foreign markets; •difficulties in establishing foreign distribution channels; •longer payment cycles or uncertainty in the collection of accounts receivable; •increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; •cultural differences in the conduct of business; •natural disasters or acts or terrorism; •difficulties in protecting intellectual property; and •susceptibility to orders being cancelled as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. We are subject to government regulation, which may require us to obtain additional licenses and could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States. The sale of certain of our products outside the United States is subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Sales of several of our encryption and broadband products require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce under these regulations. We cannot assure that such approvals will be available to us or our products in the future in a timely manner, or at all, or that the federal government will not revise its export policies or the list of products and countries for which export approval is required. In addition, the Departments of Commerce or State may prevent us from selling products to any of our distributors, customers or end-users at any time. These agencies may also place additional restrictions or requirements relative to certain products exportability. Our inability to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, required export approvals would harm our international sales. In addition, foreign companies not subject to United States export restrictions may have a competitive advantage in the international market. We cannot predict the impact of these factors on the international market for our products. In order to sell our products outside the United States, we must satisfy certain registrations and technical requirements, including the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive ("RoHS"). If we were unable to comply with those requirements with respect to our products, our sales in foreign countries could be restricted. The Company's foreign transactions are subject to additional risks. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits corporations and individuals, including the Company and its employees, from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of the Company's employees, contractors and agents, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of the Company's policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by the Company's policies, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. 