Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the common stock of Stewardship Financial Corporation involve risk. The following discussion highlights the risks management believes are material for our Corporation, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. To be profitable we must earn more interest from our interest-earning assets than we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Bank. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates can also adversely affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our assets and liabilities. 11 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to mitigate and manage credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and approval procedures, monitoring of loan concentrations and periodic independent review of outstanding loans. We cannot be assured that these procedures will reduce credit risk inherent in the business. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and assets serving as collateral for loan repayments. In determining the size of our allowance for loan loss, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. A persistent economic recession and unstable financial markets have adversely affected our industry and, because of our geographic concentration in northern New Jersey, we could be impacted by adverse changes in local economic conditions. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the nation, the state of New Jersey, and the northern New Jersey area. The nation’s current economic environment and the related volatility of the financial markets have severely adversely affected the banking industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not believe these difficult economic conditions are likely to improve dramatically in the near term. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, any significant decline in the real estate market in our primary market area would hurt our business and mean that collateral for our loans would have less value. As a consequence, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate securing the loan would be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition within the financial services industry could adversely affect our profitability. We face strong competition from banks, other financial institutions, money market mutual funds and brokerage firms within the New York metropolitan area. A number of these entities have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Competition among depository institutions for customer deposits has increased significantly in the current difficult economic situation. If we are unsuccessful in competing effectively, we will lose market share and may suffer a reduction in our margins and suffer adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal and State regulations could restrict our business and increase our costs and non-compliance would result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the FDIC, the FRB and the State of New Jersey. The significant federal and state banking regulations that we are subject to are described herein under “Item 1. Business.” Such regulation and supervision of the activities in which an institution may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall operations. These statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, and interpretations of policies and regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Any such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Due to our nation’s current economic recession and the lack of confidence in the financial markets, it is highly probable new federal and/or state laws and regulations of lending and funding practices and liquidity standards will be forthcoming. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in bank examinations with respect to bank capital requirements. Any increased government oversight may increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. We may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the current level. Our failure to comply 12 Table of Contents with law, regulations or policies applicable to our business could result in sanctions against us by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have polices and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurances that such violations will not occur. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of our vendors could negatively affect our reputation and business. We rely upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the internet for the purpose of data processing, communication and information exchange. Despite the safeguards instituted by management, such systems are susceptible to a breach of security. In addition, we rely on the service of a variety of third-party vendors to meet our processing needs. If confidential information is compromised, financial losses, costs and damages could occur. Such costs and or losses could materially affect our earnings. In addition, the negative affect on our reputation could affect our ability to deliver products and services successfully to new and existing customers. The trading volume of our stock remains low which could impact stock prices. The trading history of our common stock has been characterized by relatively low trading volume. The value of a shareholder’s investment may be subject to decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock which trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in the other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuation in operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in legal or regulatory environment; · press releases, publicity, or announcements; · changes in expectation of our future financial performance; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions; and · other developments affecting us or our competitors These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. Because of our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, the Corporation is subject to certain restrictions including limitations on the payment of dividends on and the repurchase of our Common Stock. The Corporation has traditionally paid a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders. In the future, we may not be able to declare or pay cash dividends other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.090 per share (adjusted for the 5% stock dividend paid in November 2009), which was the amount of the last regular quarterly dividend declared and paid by the Corporation before our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, or even to declare or pay cash dividends at all in accordance with past practice, due to restrictions on the payment of dividends and the repurchase of our Common Stock contained in the Securities Purchase Agreement between the Corporation and the Treasury. These restrictions on declaring or paying dividends could negatively effect the value of our Common Stock. Until the earlier of the third anniversary of the Treasury’s investment in our Series A Preferred Stock or when all of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, increase the cash dividend on our Common Stock or, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of our Common Stock or any preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock), subject to limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. We are prohibited from declaring dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased by us unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends is always subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our Common Stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our Common Stock dividend in the future. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury in connection with our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program within five years, the cost of the capital received will increase significantly. The Series A Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter. The Series A Preferred Stock has no maturity date. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the dividend payable thereon will increase on that date from 5% per annum ($500,000 annually) to 9% per annum ($900,000 annually). If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock by February 15, 2014, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. The Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury in connection with our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program reduces our net income and earnings per share of Common Stock and the Warrant issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to the ownership interests of holders of the Common Stock. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock pay cumulative dividends at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter. These dividends will reduce our net income and earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock ranks senior to the Common Stock and, as such, will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. In the event that the Warrant issued to the Treasury is exercised in whole or part, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted accordingly. The shares of Common Stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 2.2% of the shares of the Corporation’s Common Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009 (included in total shares outstanding are the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant). The Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of Common Stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, but any third party to which the Treasury transfers the Warrant or any portion of the Warrant or any shares of Common Stock underlying the Warrant is not similarly bound by this voting restriction. Our future deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at an adequate level. In light of developments in the market, FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule during the first quarter of 2009, which raised regular deposit insurance premiums. The FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of this special assessment for the Bank was approximately $300,000. In December 2009 the FDIC required us to prepay our assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Notwithstanding this prepayment, the FDIC may further increase the standard assessment rates and impose additional special assessments in the future. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Corporation will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividends to stockholders. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a prolonged economic downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 