Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Certifications 2 PART I BPZ Energy, Inc. cautions that this document contains forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K which address activities, events or developments which the Company expects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “intends,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “predicts” and similar expressions are also intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the management of BPZ in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors it believes are appropriate under the circumstances. BPZ cautions the reader that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond BPZ’s control that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the statements. See Item 1A. — “Risk Factors” included on this Form 10-K. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview BPZ Energy, Inc., (the “Company” or “BPZ”) a Colorado corporation, formerly named Navidec, Inc., was incorporated in 1993 and is based in Houston, Texas. We are an exploratory stage company focused on the exploration and production of oil and natural gas and we intend to utilize part of our future natural gas production for the complementary development of gas-fired power generation. On September 10, 2004, BPZ Energy, Inc., a Texas, (BPZ-Texas”) corporation consummated a reverse merger with Navidec, Inc., a Colorado corporation (“Navidec”), whereby BPZ-Texas became a wholly owned subsidiary of Navidec (the “Merger”). See “Business—Navidec Merger Transaction” and Note 2 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in this filing, for detailed discussion regarding the Merger. We maintain a registered branch office in Peru. Currently, we have exclusive rights and license agreements for oil and gas exploration and production covering a total of approximately 2.4 million acres in northwest Peru. Our license contracts cover 100% ownership of both Block Z-1 (739,205 acres) and Block XIX (472,860 acres). The Block Z-1 contract was signed in November 2001, and the Block XIX contract was signed in December 2003. Our license contracts provide for an initial exploration period of seven to thirteen years and seven to ten years, respectively, and require that we conduct specified activities on the properties during this period. If the exploration activities are successful, the total contract term can extend up to 30 years for oil exploration and production and up to 40 years for gas exploration and production. We have presented all necessary documentation requested by Perupetro in order to become the qualified operator under a license contract for Block XXII (948,000 acres, referred to as Area VI in previous filings) which we previously held under a Technical Evaluation Agreement. Subsequently, in March 2006, we were notified by Perupetro that we qualified as an operator for Block XXII. In July 2006 Perupetro officially informed us that our proposal for the 248,000 acre Block XXIII, located onshore in northwest Peru between our Blocks Z-1 and XIX, was the winning bid in their recent license tender process. We have presented all necessary documentation to become the qualified operator of this new block under an exploration and production license contract Through our wholly owned subsidiary, SMC Ecuador Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its registered branch in Ecuador, we also own a 10% non-operated working interest in an oil and gas producing property, Block 2, located in the southwest region of Ecuador (the “Santa Elena Property”). The license agreement covering the property extends through May 2016. We are in the exploratory stage of our oil and natural gas business and to date our activities in Peru have been primarily limited to analysis and evaluation of technical data on the properties and preparation of the development plans for the properties, including detailed engineering and design of the power plant and gas processing facilities, refurbishment of one of our offshore platforms, procuring machinery and equipment for an extended drilling campaign, obtaining all necessary environmental and operating permits and securing the required capital and financing to complete the current plan of operation. We commenced drilling of our initial well, the CX11-21XD, in the Corvina Gas Field at the CX-11 platform in September 2006, and a total depth of 10,457 feet (9,234 feet true vertical depth) was reached in November 2006. In March 2007, after a total of four Drill Stem Tests were conducted on separate potential pay zones covering 413 feet from the Lower and Upper Zorritos formations, the well tested at a rate of 40 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd) of natural gas and 3,150 barrels per day of crude oil (bopd). We next plan to workover the shut-in CX11-16X well, followed by the drilling of our second new well in the Corvina field, to test for additional gas reserves and further appraise the oil discovery. However, we caution readers that test data is not necessarily indicative of actual results. We have not drilled any other wells or recognized any revenues from operations, and we do not anticipate generating significant revenues from our properties prior to early 2008. 3 Navidec Merger Transaction On September 10, 2004, BPZ Energy, Inc., a Texas corporation, consummated a reverse merger with Navidec, Inc., a Colorado corporation (“Navidec”), whereby BPZ-Texas became a wholly owned subsidiary of Navidec (the “Merger”). In the Merger, the stockholder group of BPZ-Texas obtained majority ownership and management control of the combined company. Accordingly, for accounting purposes, BPZ-Texas was treated as the acquiring entity. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this filing, for detailed discussion regarding the Merger. All financial statements herein represent the historical financial statements of the accounting acquirer, BPZ — Texas. Upon completion of the Merger, the officers and directors of Navidec resigned, except for the former CEO of Navidec, John R. McKowen, who remained a director. Mr. McKowen, together with the management and the four directors of BPZ-Texas, became the executive officers and directors of the surviving entity. Mr. McKowen did not stand for re-election to the board of directors at the annual meeting of shareholders held on July 1, 2005. On February 4, 2005, Navidec changed its name to BPZ Energy, Inc. Although the Company’s name has been changed, the pre-merger company may be referred to as Navidec in this filing, as the context may require, to avoid confusion. The Merger required the transfer of all of the pre-merger business operations, assets and liabilities of Navidec to its wholly owned subsidiary, Navidec Financial Services, Inc. (“NFS”), followed by the transfer of ownership of NFS to the pre-merger shareholders of record as of September 9, 2004, the day prior to the consummation of the Merger. Accordingly, the pre-merger shareholders of BPZ-Texas were not entitled to receive shares of NFS. All legal requirements for the transfer of ownership of NFS have been completed. On July 13, 2006, NFS filed a Registration Statement on Form 10SB with the SEC and an amendment thereto on October 27, 2006. It is our understanding that the Registration Statement has become effective under applicable SEC rules. NFS’ results are excluded from our financial statements for all periods presented. As a result of the Merger, the shareholders of BPZ-Texas received the majority of the voting interests and control of the Board of Directors and management of the combined entity. The Merger Agreement provided for the immediate issuance by Navidec of 9,000,000 shares of its common stock to the shareholders of BPZ-Texas and the future issuance of an additional 18,000,000 shares on an earn-out basis if the Company achieves certain reserve and production goals. The first 9,000,000 earn-out shares were contingent on achieving certain reserve targets, which were achieved in December 2004. The remaining 9,000,000 earn-out shares are issuable once the Company is entitled to receive as its proportionate share from gross production from any oil and gas wells owned or operated by the Company not less than 2,000 barrels of oil per day or its equivalent (approximately 12 million cubic feet of gas per day) prior to December 28, 2007. Plan of Operation Corvina Gas-to-Power Our plan of operation is initially focused on the development and exploitation of the oil and natural gas resource opportunities in the offshore Block Z-1 in northwest Peru, in which we own a 100% working interest. Our initial project, referred to as the Corvina Gas-to-Power project, with an estimated capital budget of $132.3 million, entails the refurbishment of the Corvina CX-11 platform, rehabilitation of an existing well and the drilling of two new wells, installation of a 10-mile gas pipeline from the platform to shore, construction of gas processing facilities and a 160 MW simple-cycle electric generating plant, and the construction of a 40-mile gas pipeline to supply gas to third party generators in Arenillas, Ecuador. In order to achieve our objectives, we must obtain significant financing from external sources. To date we have raised approximately $60 million through several private placements of our common stock. In addition, on December 20, 2006, the International Finance Corporation’s (“IFC”) Board of Executive Directors approved a $120 million financial package related to this project. See “Capital Expenditures and Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion. Our first priority is drilling the initial gas wells in the Corvina Gas Field to develop reserves and establish deliverability at expected levels. In December 2005, we signed a drilling contract with Petrex S.A., a subsidiary of Saipem SpA of Italy. Under this contract, Petrex S.A. provided us with a platform rig capable of drilling to 16,000 feet and upgraded the rig to meet our specifications. We paid $5.5 million to upgrade and mobilize the rig. In exchange, we received a competitive fixed day rate and exclusive rights to use the rig, at our option, during the two-year period commencing with delivery of the rig in September 2006. In addition, after the guaranteed two-year period, we have the option to extend the contract for an additional year at market rates. In April 2006, we acquired and equipped a deck barge that was used to transport the drilling rig to the Corvina CX-11 platform and then act as a tender for offshore drilling operations at Corvina, and eventually at our other properties. The deck barge, officially named BPZ-01, is equipped with a 200 ton crane for loading and off-loading. BPZ-01 and related equipment, including a smaller 35 ton crane, two winches and related spare parts, were acquired for approximately $6.0 million. BPZ-01 is an important element in the Company’s strategy to control drilling costs by allowing the use of existing platforms and avoiding the use of high-priced drill ships or barges. 4 The Corvina Gas Field has two existing platforms, the CX-11, which we recently refurbished and the CX-13 which we plan to refurbish in the future. The CX-11platform was evaluated as fit for operations by the independent risk management consulting firm of ABSG Consulting, Inc. Our initial plans include the drilling of two new wells from the Corvina CX-11 platform which also has a shut-in gas well which we intend to recomplete and utilize for gas production. We have secured all tubular goods required to meet our expected needs for these first three gas wells. We have obtained the required environmental and drilling permits in order to commence drilling operations. We commenced drilling of our initial well, the CX11-21XD, in the Corvina Gas Field at the CX-11 platform in September 2006 and a total depth of 10,457 feet (9,234 feet true vertical depth) was reached in November 2006. In March 2007, after a total of four Drill Stem Tests (DST) were conducted on separate potential pay zones covering 413 feet from the Lower and Upper Zorritos formations, the well tested at a rate of 40 million cubic feet per day (MMcfpd) of natural gas and 3,150 barrels per day of crude oil (bopd). However, we caution the reader that test results are not necessarily indicative of actual production. The gas is essentially pure methane with no impurities, making it ideal for the Company’s proposed 160 MW power plant project which will require 40 MMcfpd of feedstock. The drilling of this first well at Corvina fulfills our contractual exploration commitment under the current second exploration period of the Block Z-1 License Contract. We next plan to workover the shut-in CX11-16X well, followed by the drilling of our second new well in the Corvina field, to test for additional gas reserves and further appraise the oil discovery. Our initial plan of operation envisions the installation of a Company-owned 160 megawatt (“MW”) simple-cycle, gas-fired, electric generation plant at Nueva Esperanza, near the town of Caleta Cruz, in northwest Peru. In August 2005, we awarded the turnkey contract for the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) of the power plant project to BTEC Turbines LP of Houston (“BTEC”). The contract was awarded following a comprehensive six-month bidding process that included field visits by all of the bidders. The engineering portion of the contract is ongoing and nearing completion. Final terms of the procurement and construction portions of contract are currently being negotiated. BTEC is expected to supply two General Electric Frame 7EA simple-cycle gas-fired turbines. BTEC will also act as the main contractor for the design, transportation, construction, startup and commissioning of the power plant. Our plan is to own 100% of the power plant. Accordingly, our revenues from the natural gas delivered to the power plant will be derived from the sale of electricity. To transport the natural gas from the Corvina Gas Field to our planned power plant we intend to construct a 10-mile offshore pipeline. The power plant site is located adjacent to an existing substation and power transmission lines which, with certain upgrades, are expected to be capable of handling up to 360 MW of power. In order to support our proposed electric generation project, we commissioned an independent power market analysis for the region. The Peruvian electricity market is deregulated and power is transported through an interconnected national grid managed by the Committee for Economic Dispatching of Electricity (known as “COES”). Based on this study, we believe we will be able to sell economic quantities of electricity from the initial 160 MW power plant. The market study also indicates that there may be future opportunities for us to generate and sell significantly greater volumes of power into the Peruvian and Ecuadorian power markets. During the planning stage for the drilling of the first Corvina well in Block Z-1, we incurred a substantial delay in the procurement of a drilling rig. Also, during the final stages of completing the Corvina well, we encountered a mechanical problem. This problem resulted from a gas kick following the cementing of the 7” liner in the Zorritos formation and caused cement and several joints of drill pipe to block part of the 9 5/8” intermediate casing. All obstructions were successfully cleared. Primarily because of these two events, projected power sales to the Peruvian market are now anticipated to commence in early 2008. This timeline is subject to many factors, including completion of required financing arrangements, which may be beyond our control. Based on the revised timeline, we will focus our capital expenditures on critical drilling activities. Procurement activities for the other phases of the project will be coordinated with expected additional funding from the IFC project-based debt financing, as described above, or additional equity financing. In addition to the local power market targeted in our initial project in Peru, we intend to simultaneously develop a gas sales strategy for nearby Ecuador to capitalize on what we believe to be significant upside gas potential of the Corvina and Piedra Redonda Gas Fields located in Block Z-1, as well as the potentially significant natural gas resources in the adjacent onshore Block XIX. These properties are within 30 miles of the Ecuadorian border and we plan to develop them for export sales of either raw gas or power generation via connection to the transmission system of Ecuador. Our plan for eventual Ecuadorian gas sales includes the construction of a 40-mile pipeline from Caleta Cruz, the terminal point of our offshore pipeline from the Corvina Gas Field, to Arenillas, Ecuador. We intend to sell gas for the generation of electricity by third party power producers in the local market in Ecuador. We are planning to complete this pipeline for first sales of gas to Ecuador in late 2008, though this schedule is subject to many factors outside our control, including all necessary financing and no assurance can be given that we can meet this schedule. In addition to the initial Corvina Gas-to-Power development project described above, we have exploration and 5 development rights to other fields within Block Z-1 and Blocks XIX, XXII and XXIII. We plan to seek additional financing for these projects from industry or capital market sources, and we are not currently planning to make significant capital expenditures for seismic acquisition, excluding Block XIX as described below, or other exploration and development activities beyond our initial Corvina Gas-to-Power project as described above, until we have secured such additional financing. Below is a brief summary of some of our possible future exploration and development projects: Block Z-1 In light of the recent oil discovery on the CX11-21XD well in the Corvina field, as discussed above, we plan on targeting the same zones on the workover of the shut-in well as well as on the second new well. If the test results also indicate the presence of commercially viable oil, we may consider implementing a fast-track oil development program simultaneous with or possibly prior to the full implementation of the Corvina gas-to-power project and development of the Albacora Oil Field. Future plans for Block Z-1 include: further development of the Corvina and Piedra Redonda Gas Fields for future industrial markets, such as petrochemicals, and for additional gas sales into Guayaquil, Ecuador, known as the industrial center of Ecuador; the development of the Albacora Oil Field for which we have completed the baseline field work towards the securing of the environmental permits required for repair of an existing platform, the workover of three shut-in wells, and the related drilling program. We have completed our internal evaluation of the Albacora oilfield’s estimated reserves based on the definitions and standards adopted in 1997 by the Society of Petroleum Engineers & World Petroleum Congresses (SPE/WPC), and we are seeking an independent certification of such reserves, though no assurance can be given that any such reserves can be proven, or will be certified as proven, or that we can demonstrate our technical or financial ability to recover any such reserves. We also have begun planning for eventual exploration and development work in the deeper water sections of Block Z-1 Block XIX In connection with our onshore Block XIX license contract, we are obligated to shoot at least 100 kilometers of 2-D seismic surveys during the first half of 2007, unless an extension is requested and granted. Depending on the results of this work, we may elect to drill an exploratory well. We have secured the environmental permits and other authorizations to perform seismic testing in this block. Blocks XXII and XXIII We have initiated negotiations to obtain a license contract for exploration and development activities for Block XXII, which until December 31, 2005, we held under a Technical Evaluation Agreement. Block XXII is a large onshore block in northwest Peru which encompasses the Lancones Basin. In March 2006, we were notified by Perupetro that we qualified as an operator of Block XXII. In July 2006, Perupetro officially informed us that our proposal for the 248,000 acre Block XXIII, located onshore in northwest Peru between our Blocks Z-1 and XIX, was the winning bid in their tender process. We have presented all necessary documentation to become the qualified operator of this new block under an exploration and production license contract. See Item 2. — “Properties” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further information. Available Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, the Company maintains a website (http://www.bpzenergy.com), on which we make available, free of charge, all of the Company’s above mentioned filings with the SEC, including Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to our equity securities under Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934. These filings will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 6 Our Competition There is intense competition in the oil and gas industry with respect to the acquisition of producing properties, undeveloped acreage, and rights to explore for these properties. Many major and independent oil and gas companies actively pursue and bid for the mineral rights of desirable properties, and many companies have been actively engaged in acquiring oil and gas properties in Peru and Ecuador. We believe that our early efforts and knowledge of our targeted areas have given us a competitive advantage in Peru, and to a lesser extent, in Ecuador. Although there are unleased tracts within our target area, we believe that these properties may be less attractive to other companies because it will be difficult for them to obtain a significant amount of contiguous mineral acres. This results in part from our significant holdings in the vicinity of these unleased tracts. However, increased demand for license rights in surrounding areas may impact our ability to expand and grow in the future, particularly because many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, better name recognition and longer operating histories. As a result, we may not be able to acquire additional oil and gas properties in desirable locations. There is also intense competition in the oil and gas industry for access to drilling and other contract services and experienced technical and operating personnel needed to drill and complete wells. We recently experienced difficulty obtaining a drilling rig for our planned drilling operations, but now have a drilling rig under contract. Competition for drilling and contract services in our target area is increasing and may affect our plan of operation. We periodically adjust our operating plans and timelines to adapt to this changing environment. Increasing future demand for drillers and contractors may limit our ability to execute in a timely manner and may negatively impact our ability to grow. Regulation Impacting Our Business General Various aspects of our oil and natural gas operations are currently or will be subject to various foreign laws and governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Although we believe that our operations are and will be in substantial compliance with existing legislation and requirements of governmental bodies, our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. Our principals have many collective decades of experience in dealing directly with the Peruvian government on energy projects and in some cases have been directly involved in the drafting and promulgation of petroleum legislation. Therefore we believe we are in a unique position to understand and comply with local rules and regulations. However, our current permits and authorizations and our ability to obtain future permits and authorizations may, over time, be susceptible to increased scrutiny and greater complexity which could result in increased costs or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. Peru Peruvian hydrocarbon legislation. Peru’s hydrocarbon legislation, which includes the Organic Hydrocarbon Law No. 26221 and the regulations thereunder (the “Organic Hydrocarbon Law”), governs our operations in Peru. This legislation covers the entire range of petroleum operations, defines the roles of Peruvian government agencies which regulate and interact with the oil and gas industry, requires that investments in the petroleum sector be undertaken solely by private investors (either national or foreign), and provides for the promotion of the development of hydrocarbon activities based on free competition and free access to all economic activities. This law provides that pipeline transportation and natural gas distribution must be handled via contracts. All other petroleum activities are to be freely operated and are subject only to local and international safety and environment standards. Under this legal system, Peru is the owner of the hydrocarbons located below the surface in its national territory. However, Peru has given the ownership right to extracted hydrocarbons to Perupetro, a state company that is responsible for promoting and overseeing the investment of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation activities in Peru. Perupetro is empowered to enter into contracts for either the exploration and exploitation or the exploitation of petroleum and gas on behalf of Peru, which are described further below. The Peruvian government also plays an active role in petroleum operations through the involvement of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, the specialized government department in charge of devising energy, mining and environmental protection policies, enacting the rules applicable to all these sectors and supervising compliance with such policies and rules. Within the Ministry of Energy and Mines, the Supervising Office for Investments in Energy (“OSINERG”) is the agency charged with economic and technical supervision. We are subject to the laws and regulations of all of these entities and agencies. Perupetro generally enters into either license contracts or service contracts for hydrocarbon exploration and 7 exploitation. Peru’s laws also allow for other contract models, but the investor must propose contract terms that are compatible with Peru’s interests. A company must be qualified by Perupetro to enter into hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation contracts in Peru. In order to qualify, the company must meet the standards under the Regulations Governing the Qualifications of Oil Companies. These qualifications generally require the company to have the technical, legal, economic and financial capacity to comply with all obligations it will assume under the contract based on the characteristics of the area requested, the possible investments and the environmental protection rules governing the performance of its operations. When a contractor is a foreign investor, it is expected to incorporate a subsidiary company or registered branch in accordance with Peru’s municipal laws and appoint representatives who will interact with Perupetro. Our Peruvian branch, BPZ Energy, Inc., Sucursal Peru, has been qualified by Perupetro with respect to our current contracts. However, Perupetro reviews the qualification for each specific contract to be signed by a company. Additionally, the qualification for foreign companies is granted in favor of the home office or corporation, which is jointly and severally liable at all times for the technical, legal, economic and financial capacity of its Peruvian branch. When operating under a license contract, the licensee is the owner of the hydrocarbons extracted from the contract area during the performance of operations, and pays royalties which are collected by Perupetro. The licensee can market the hydrocarbons in any manner whatsoever, subject to a limitation in the case of natural emergencies where the law stipulates such manner. Licensees are obligated to submit quarterly reports to the Petroleum Bureau (Direccion General de Hidrocarburos). Licensees must also submit a monthly economic report to the Central Bank of Peru. These reports are generally combined and delivered together with other operating reports required to be submitted to Perupetro. Previously, all license contracts were granted by the Ministry of Energy and Mines. The change to Perupetro as the license contract grantor subjects all license contracts to a new legal framework. Although there is precedent for these new licensing procedures, there may still be some uncertainly as to exactly how the licensing procedures will function in the future. Under exploitation service contracts, the ownership of all of the extracted petroleum is vested in Perupetro and the company will receive compensation agreed to by the parties. However, Perupetro is granted the power to remunerate the investor either in cash or in kind, depending on the level of investment and the volume of production. We have no service contracts, nor do we foresee operating under this form of contract. The duration of the license contracts is based on the nature of the hydrocarbons discovered. The contract duration for crude oil is thirty years, while the contract duration for natural gas and condensates is forty years. The periods commence on an agreed date and are determined based on location of the contract area, season of the year in which exploration commences, and other similar factors. Contracts typically include an exploration phase and an exploitation phase, unless the contract is solely an exploitation contract. Within the contract term, seven years is allotted to exploration, with the possibility of three extensions of one year each. There is also a potential deferment period for a maximum of ten years if certain factors recognized by law delay the economic viability of a discovery, such as lack of transportation facilities or lack of a market. The exploration phase is generally divided into several periods, with a maximum of seven periods, and each period includes a minimum work program. The fulfillment of work programs must be supported by an irrevocable bank guaranty, usually in the amount of thirty to forty percent of the estimated value of the minimum work program. Perupetro also grants technical evaluation agreements. These agreements give the contractor the right to conduct technical evaluations of the areas under such agreements and to enter into license contracts if the evaluations indicate the potential for profitable operations. The technical evaluation agreement is generally for a period of twenty-four months, depending upon the volume and nature of the work to be carried out. We currently have two license contracts and are in the process of finalizing negotiations on the terms and conditions of two additional license contracts. As of December 31, 2006, we believe we were in compliance with all of the material requirements of each of such contracts. We have executed certain letters of guaranty to guarantee our performance under the license contracts and technical evaluation agreements, including a $350,000 bond posted in August 2005, to secure our obligation under the license contract for Block XIX. The bond was partially secured by the deposit of restricted cash with the financial institution which issued the bond. Should we fail to fulfill our obligations under the license contract without technical justification or other good cause, Perupetro could seek recourse to the bond or terminate the license. Peruvian fiscal regime. Peru’s fiscal regime determines the levels of the government’s entitlement from petroleum activities. This regime is subject to change, which could negatively impact our business. 8 License contracts are subject to royalty payments, which are usually a fixed percentage of the actual production sold. The taxing regulations stipulate a minimum royalty payment of five percent increasing incrementally to a maximum of twenty percent based on production. The Organic Hydrocarbon Law and the Regulations Governing the Tax Stability Guaranty and Other Tax Rules of the Organic Hydrocarbon Law provide that the tax regime in force on the date of signing a contract will remain unchanged during the term of the contract. Therefore, any change to the tax regime, which results in either an increase or decrease in the tax burden, will not affect the operator. During the exploration phase, operators are exempt from import duties and other forms of taxation applicable to goods intended for exploration activities. Exemptions are withdrawn at the production phase, but exceptions are made in certain instances, and the operator may be entitled to import goods tax-free for an additional two-year period. Taxable income is determined by deducting allowable operating and administrative expenses, including royalty payments. Income tax is levied on the income of the operator based upon the legal corporate tax rate in effect at the date the contract was signed. Operators engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas and condensates must determine their taxable income separately for each license contract under which it operates. Where a contractor carries out these activities under different individual license contracts, it may offset its earnings before income tax under one license contract with losses under another license contract, as long as the contract with the loss is in the production phase, for purposes of determining the corporate income tax. Peruvian labor and safety legislation. Our operations in Peru will also be subject to the Unified Labor Law, which governs the labor force in the petroleum sector. In addition, the Organic Hydrocarbon Law and related Safety Regulations for the Petroleum Industry also regulate the safety and health of workers involved in the development of hydrocarbon activities. All entities engaged in the performance of activities related to the petroleum industry must provide the General Hydrocarbons Bureau on a semi-annual basis with the list of their personnel, indicating their nationality, specialty and position. These entities must also permanently train their workers on the application of safety measures in the operations, and control of disasters and emergencies. Each entity must keep detailed records of all accidents that occur in its operations and report all accidents to the General Hydrocarbons Bureau. The regulations also contain provisions on accident prevention and personnel health and safety, which in turn include rules on living conditions, sanitary facilities, water quality at workplaces, medical assistance and first-aid services. Provisions specifically related to the exploration phase, which is our current phase of operations, are also contained in the regulations and include safety measures in camps, medical assistance, food conditions, and handling of explosives. Additional safety regulations may also apply as we expand and develop our operations. Peruvian electric power legislation. Our business plan envisions the generation of electricity and the sale of such electric power in Peru. The basic laws in Peru governing electric power, which will apply to our future operations, are the Law of Electric Power Concessions and the Regulations for the Environmental Protection of Electric Power Activities, the corresponding regulations for each, as well as additional related laws and regulations, including all legislation regarding Electric Power Tariffs and all regulations and technical norms created by the National Commission of Electric Power Tariffs. Peruvian environmental regulation. Our operations are subject to numerous and frequently changing laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Peru has enacted specific environmental regulations applicable to the petroleum industry. The Code on the Environment and the Natural Resources establishes a framework within which all specific laws and regulations applicable to each sector of the economy are to be developed. These laws and regulations are designed to ensure the continual balance of environmental and petroleum interests. The regulations stipulate certain environmental standards expected from contractors. They also specify appropriate sanctions to be enforced by the Ministry of Mines and Energy if a contractor fails to maintain such standards. The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with the responsibility of issuing the applicable standards. OSINERG is responsible for ensuring compliance with applicable environmental rules covering hydrocarbon activities. The Organic Hydrocarbon Law also addresses the environmental regulatory regime in Peru. The law originally prohibited any mining or extractive operations within certain areas designated for protection. It was, however, subsequently modified to enable investors to prospect for hydrocarbons within protected areas, provided there is compliance with several obligations. We must comply with these obligations as we conduct our business on an ongoing basis. The Environmental Regulations for Hydrocarbon Activities provide that companies participating in the implementation of projects, performance of work and operation of facilities related to hydrocarbon activities, are responsible for the emission, discharge and disposal of wastes into the environment. Companies must annually file a report corresponding to the previous year describing the company’s compliance with the environmental legislation in force. 9 Companies involved in hydrocarbon activities must also prepare and file an Environmental Impact Study (“EIS”) with the General Hydrocarbons Bureau, which is part of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, in order for the relevant activities to comply with the maximum permissible emission limits set forth by the Ministry of Energy and Mines. An EIS must be prepared for each project to be carried out. All of these proposals must be approved by the General Environmental Bureau, which is also part of the Ministry of Energy and Mines. In addition, any party responsible for hydrocarbon activities must file an “Oil Spill and Emergency Contingency Plan” with the General Hydrocarbons Bureau. The plan must be updated at least once a year and must contain information regarding the measures to be taken in the event of spills, explosions, fires, accidents, evacuation, etc. It must also contain information on the procedures, personnel and equipment required to be used and procedures to be followed to establish uninterrupted communication between the personnel, the government representatives, the General Hydrocarbons Bureau and other State entities. Peru has recently enacted amendments to its environmental law, imposing substantial restrictions on the use of natural resources, interference with the natural environment, location of facilities, handling and storage of hydrocarbons, use of radioactive material, disposal of waste, emission of noise and other activities. Additionally, the laws require monitoring and reporting obligations in the event of any spillage or unregulated discharge of hydrocarbons. Any failure to comply with environmental protection rules, the import of contaminated products, or failure to keep a monitoring register or send reports to the General Hydrocarbons Bureau in a timely fashion, could subject the company to fines. In addition, the General Hydrocarbons Bureau may consider imposing a prohibition or restriction of the relevant activity, an obligation to compensate the aggrieved parties and/or an obligation to immediately restore the area. The company responsible for any default can also be subject to a suspension of operations for a term of one, two or three months, or indefinitely. Furthermore, any contract signed with the Peruvian government, the implementation of which jeopardizes or endangers the protection or conservation of protected natural areas, can be terminated. We are subject to all Peruvian environmental regulations applicable to the petroleum industry now in existence and those existing in the future. The enactment and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations in Peru is relatively new. We are therefore uncertain how Peruvian authorities will enforce and supervise environmental compliance and standards. Further, we cannot predict any future regulation or the cost associated with future compliance. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental requirements, our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulations. Our current permits and authorizations and ability to obtain future permits and authorizations may be susceptible, on a going forward basis, to increased scrutiny, greater complexity resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. In particular, we may experience in the future delays in obtaining permits and authorizations in Peru necessary for our operations. We are required to obtain an environmental permit or approval from the government in Peru prior to conducting any seismic operations, drilling a well or constructing a pipeline in Peruvian territory, including the waters in offshore Peru where we intend to conduct oil and gas operations. Compliance with Existing Legislation in Peru Although we believe that our operations are and will be in substantial compliance with existing legislation and requirements of Peruvian governmental bodies, our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. As noted above, our principals have many collective decades of experience in dealing directly with the Peruvian government on energy projects and in some past cases have been directly involved in the drafting and promulgation of petroleum legislation. Therefore, we believe we are in a good position to understand and comply with local rules and regulations. Ecuador SMC Ecuador, Inc. has had its 10% non-operating interest in the Santa Elena oil fields since 1997. As a non-operator, we are not directly subject to the laws and regulations of Ecuador covering the oil and gas industry and the environment. However, if we begin operating activities in Ecuador, we will be directly subject to such laws and regulations. Environmental Compliance and Risks As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties throughout South America, we are subject to various national, state and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the contractor under an oil and gas license agreement for the cost of pollution clean-up resulting from operations, subject the contractor to liability for pollution damages, and require 10 suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Except for certain pollution coverage related to our barge, we do not presently maintain environmental insurance coverage, because, in management’s judgment, such coverage is not cost-effective at this time in view of our limited activities. However, we may acquire such insurance coverage in the future based on our assessment of the risks of our operations and the costs of such coverage. No such coverage can insure us fully against all environmental risks. We are not aware of any environmental claims existing which would have a material impact upon our financial position or results of operations. We have made and will continue our efforts to comply with these requirements, which we believe are necessary to successful long-term operations in the oil and gas industry. We have established guidelines for continuing compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In order to carry out our plan of operation, we are required to conduct environmental impact studies and obtain environmental approvals for operations. We have engaged outside consultants to perform these studies and assist us in obtaining necessary approvals. Our estimated cost for these studies and assistance related to the Corvina gas-to-power project, Block XIX and Albacora are approximately $522,000, of which $488,000 has been incurred as of December 31, 2006. We do not believe that compliance with federal, state or local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company or its subsidiaries. However, there is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not have such an impact. Operational Hazards and Insurance Our operations will be subject to the usual hazards incident to the drilling and production of oil and gas, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we do not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are considered prohibitive. We currently have general liability insurance coverage which we believe is adequate for our current stage of operations based on management’s assessment. Such insurance may not cover every potential risk associated with the drilling, production and processing of oil and gas. In particular, coverage is not obtainable for all types of environmental hazards. Additionally, the occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by our insurance policy, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance or increase current coverage amounts at rates we consider reasonable. Research and Development We seek to use advanced technologies in the evaluation of our oil and gas properties and new opportunities. We generally do not develop such technologies internally, but our technical team works with outside vendors to test and utilize these technologies to the fullest practical extent, particularly in the application of geophysical and exploration software. In certain cases, our collaboration has aided the development of these technologies. We do not believe we have incurred any quantifiable incremental costs in connection with research and development activities. Executive Officers The following table sets forth the names of our chairman and executive officers along with their positions and ages, as of December 31, 2006. The chairman has served since his appointment in September 2004. Name Age Position Dr. Fernando Zúñiga y Rivero 79 Chairman of the Board Manuel Pablo Zúñiga-Pflücker 45 Chief Executive Officer, President, and Director Frederic Briens 47 Chief Operating Officer Edward G. Caminos(1) 44 Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer Edward Gilliard(1) 51 Vice President—Finance and Treasurer (1) Appointed to their respective positions on October 30, 2006. 11 Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero, Chairman of the Board, is the father of the Company’s President, CEO and Director, Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker. No other family relationships exist between any directors or executive officers of the Company. Set forth below are brief descriptions of the recent employment and business experience of the officers and directors of the Company. Dr. Fernando Zúñiga y Rivero, Chairman of the Board. Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero became Chairman of the Board of BPZ upon consummation of the Merger with Navidec, Inc. in September 2004. Immediately prior to the Merger and since 1996, he served as Chairman of BPZ & Associates Inc., (the former parent company of BPZ—Texas), which has been inactive subsequent to the Merger. Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero was also Energy Division project officer of The World Bank, where he planned and implemented exploration promotion projects in 58 countries, primarily in East and West Africa, Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia and Latin America from 1979 to 1996. Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero has fifty years of experience in the international energy industry starting as an exploration geologist, biostratigrapher, and exploration head of an Exxon affiliate in Peru; and continuing as exploration production manager, integrated operations manager, general manager, and ultimately serving as Chairman and CEO of Petroleos del Peru, the national oil company of Peru. Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero holds a B.S., a M.S. and a Ph.D. in Geology from the University of San Augustin, Peru, and he conducted postgraduate studies at the University of California, Los Angeles. In April 2005, Dr. Zúñiga y Rivero became a director of Transmeridian Exploration, Inc., a public oil and gas company with operations in Kazakhstan. Manuel Pablo Zúñiga-Pflücker, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director. Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker became President and Director of BPZ upon consummation of the Merger with Navidec, Inc. in September 2004 and in May 2005 assumed the additional title of Chief Executive Officer. Immediately prior to the Merger and since its formation in 2001, Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker served as President of BPZ—Texas. Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker also served as President of BPZ & Associates, Inc., the former parent company of BPZ—Texas, from 1989 until its Merger with Navidec, Inc. in September 2004, at which time BPZ & Associates, Inc. became inactive. Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker began his career with Occidental Petroleum Corporation. Mr. Zúñiga-Pflücker has spent the past 20 years in the international oil and gas business, and he has been involved in projects throughout Latin America and other areas of the world ranging from exploitation of marginal oil and gas fields to frontier exploration projects. He has also focused on the creative development of natural gas fields utilizing power generation and gas to liquids technology. He holds a B.S. in mechanical engineering from the University of Maryland as well as an M.S. in petroleum engineering from Texas A&M University. Frederic Briens, Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Briens joined BPZ as Vice President of Engineering in December 2004 and was named Chief Operating Officer in May 2005. From 2002 through 2004, Mr. Briens served as Geosciences and Business Development Manager for Perenco in Venezuela. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Briens was the Chief Reservoir Engineer for Lundin Petroleum in Switzerland. Mr. Briens is a petroleum engineer with over 20 years of operating experience in international oil and gas projects spanning the globe. He has also served in senior technical and operating positions with Conoco, Schlumberger and Chevron. Mr. Briens holds an M.S. and a Ph.D. in petroleum engineering from Texas A&M University, an MBA from Colorado State University and an engineering degree from Ecole Centrale de Paris. Mr. Briens was a co-founder of BPZ & Associates, Inc., a predecessor to the Company, in 1989. Edward G. Caminos, Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Caminos was appointed as Vice President—Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, effective October 30, 2006. Mr. Caminos served as interim Chief Financial Officer since June 15, 2006 and as Corporate Controller of the Company since January 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Caminos served as Director Financial Reporting for the Americas Division at Duke Energy from June 2004 to January 2005. From February 2001 to May 2004, Mr. Caminos served as Financial Reporting Manager and, prior to its sale, as interim Controller for the Europe Division, at Reliant Energy. Edward Gilliard, Vice President—Finance and Treasurer. Mr. Gilliard was appointed as Vice President—Finance and Treasurer of the Company, effective October 30, 2006. Mr. Gilliard started his career in 1977 with Amoco Production Company as an operations and reservoir engineer. He worked in energy lending and project financing with Continental Illinois National Bank, Banque Indosuez, and Reliant Energy International, formerly Houston Industries Energy, where he worked on project financing for power projects in South America, as well as other regions. In 1997, he joined Burlington Resources and worked in areas such as international finance, strategic planning, business development, and governmental affairs. In the latter capacity, Mr. Gilliard was a lead editor on the National Petroleum Council’s 1999 and 2003 landmark studies on natural gas. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical Engineering from Texas A&M University and an MBA from the University of Houston. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we employed 18 full-time employees (of which 3 are executive officers) in our Houston office and 14 full-time employees (of which 1 is an executive officer) in our Lima, Peru office. We had one full-time employee in the Quito, Ecuador office. BPZ believes that its relationship with its employees is satisfactory. None of our employees are 12 represented by a union. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, the Power Industry, and Our Business. We have a limited operating history and have only engaged in start-up activities. Although BPZ-Texas was formed in 2001, we are in the exploratory stage because we have not had significant business operations since formation and have generated no revenues from the production of oil or gas from our properties. We are also subject to all of the risks inherent in attempting to expand a relatively new business venture. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the possible inability to profitably operate our existing properties or properties to be acquired in the future, our possible inability to fully fund the development requirements of such properties and our possible inability to acquire additional properties that will have a positive effect on our operations. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve a level of profitability that will provide a return on invested capital or that will result in an increase in the market value of our securities. The experience of our management team has primarily been in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and we have limited experience in the power generation business. We are initially relying on consultants and outside engineering and technical firms to provide the expertise to plan and execute the power generation aspects of our strategy and we have not yet hired all necessary full-time employees to manage this line of business. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that because of these factors and other general business risks noted throughout these “Risk Factors,” we may not be able to profitably execute our power generation strategy. We own rights to oil and gas properties that have not yet been developed. We own rights to oil and gas properties that have limited or no development. There are no guarantees that our properties will be developed profitably or that the potential oil and gas resources on the property will produce as expected if they are developed. We require additional financing for the exploration and development of our foreign oil and gas properties and the construction of our proposed power generation facility, pipeline and gas processing facility. With the net proceeds from: (i) a $6 million private offering completed on September 30, 2004, (ii) a $34.4 million private offering completed on July 19, 2005, (iii) a $5.0 million private offering on March 10, 2006, (iv) a $12.3 million private offering on June 20, 2006, and (v) $19.5 million private placement to the International Finance Corporation (“IFC”) on December 20, 2006, we have begun to implement our plans to develop our existing oil and gas properties as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Plan of Operation.” On December 20, 2006, the International Finance Corporation’s (“IFC”) Board of Executive Directors approved a $120 million financial package. IFC is the private sector arm of the World Bank Group based in Washington, D.C. As part of the financing, we completed a private placement of 6,500,000 shares of common stock, no par value, to the IFC pursuant to a Subscription Agreement dated December 18, 2006. The common stock was priced at $3.00 per share resulting in proceeds to us of approximately $19.5 million. The offering was placed directly by us and there were no placement fees. The remaining $100.5 million portion of IFC financing consists of $30.5 million of debt facilities for IFC’s own account and $70 million of debt facilities for the account of third-party financial institutions. Syndication of the third-party debt component is expected to take place during the second quarter of 2007. The remaining debt portion of the financing is subject to identification of the lending syndicate members and subsequent negotiation and approval of the necessary loan documentation. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion. If we are unable to timely obtain adequate funds to finance our exploration and development, our ability to develop our oil and gas reserves may be limited or substantially delayed. Such limitations or delays could result in the potential loss of our oil and gas properties if we were unable to meet our obligations under the license agreements. Inability to timely obtain funds also could cause us to delay, scale back or abandon our plans for construction of our power generation facility, pipelines, and gas processing facility. We anticipate that future amounts required to fund our foreign activities will be obtained through debt financing, sale of additional equity interests, joint venture arrangements, the sale of oil and gas interests, and/or future cash flows from operations. The exact nature and terms of such funding sources are unknown at this time, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain such funding or have adequate funding available to finance our future operations. Our future operating revenue is dependent upon the performance of our properties. Our future operating revenue depends upon our ability to profitably operate our existing properties by drilling and completing wells that produce commercial quantities of oil and gas and our ability to expand our operations through the successful implementation of our plans to explore and acquire additional properties. The successful development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact. There can be no assurance that once in operation we can produce sufficient revenue to operate our existing properties or acquire additional oil and gas producing properties and leases. We may not discover or successfully produce any recoverable reserves, or we may not be able to make a profit from the reserves that we may discover. 13 In the event that we are unable to produce sufficient operating revenue to fund our future operations, we will be forced to seek additional, third-party funding, if such funding can be obtained. Such options would possibly include debt financing, sale of equity interests in the Company, joint venture arrangements, or the sale of oil and gas interests. If we are unable to secure such financing on a timely basis, we could be required to delay or scale back our operations. If such unavailability of funds continued for an extended period of time, this could result in the termination of our operations and the loss of an investor’s entire investment. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that may prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our exploration and production activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including weather, the drilling of dry holes, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well will not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs and surface cratering; · uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; · natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; · pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; · casing collapses; · mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, any well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect any drilling operations we may commence. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of: · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; · injury or loss of life; · severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation and penalties; · suspension of our operations; and · repairs to resume operations. If any of these risks occur, and our resulting losses are significant, we may have to curtail or suspend any drilling or production operations we may eventually commence. 14 We plan to conduct offshore exploration, exploitation and production operations off the coast of northwest Peru, all of which are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment. Such risks include capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from adverse weather conditions or interference from commercial fishing activities. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. Disruption of services provided by our deck barge could temporarily impair our operations. We depend on our deck barge BPZ-01 to transport equipment to our offshore platforms and to act as a tender for our offshore drilling operations in Block Z-1. BPZ-01 is an important element in our strategy to control drilling costs by allowing the use of existing platforms and avoiding the use of high-priced drill ships or barges. Any disruption of the services provided by our deck barge because of adverse weather conditions, accidents, mechanical failures, insufficient personnel or other events could temporarily impair our operations, delay implementation of our business plan, and increase our drilling costs. In addition, our insurance may not be adequate to cover any resulting losses. Construction and operation of power generation and gas processing facilities and pipelines involve significant risks that cannot always be covered by insurance or contractual protections. The construction of power generation and gas processing facilities and pipelines involve many risks, including: · supply interruptions, · work stoppages, · labor disputes, · social unrest, · inability to negotiate acceptable construction, supply or other contracts, · inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals, · weather interferences, · unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems, and · unanticipated cost overruns. The ongoing operation of these facilities involves all of the risks described above, in addition to risks relating to the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and performances below expected levels of output or efficiency. We intend to maintain commercially reasonable levels of insurance where such insurance is available and cost effective, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels. However, the coverage or proceeds of any such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. Any of these risks could cause us to operate below expected capacity levels, which in turn could result in lost revenues, increased expense and higher maintenance costs. Our success depends on the existence and growth of markets for natural gas and electricity in Peru and Ecuador. Peru has a relatively well-developed and stable market for electricity, while the power market in Ecuador is not as well-developed or stable. Both countries rely on hydro-electric generating capacity for a significant portion of their power demand. Hydro plants are much less expensive to operate than plants that utilize natural gas, but they are subject to variable output based on rainfall and reservoir levels. The majority of the non-hydro, or thermal, power capacity in both countries consists of generating plants that utilize diesel or fuel oil, which are significantly more costly than natural gas at this time. Both countries have natural gas reserves and production, but neither has a well-developed natural gas infrastructure. Our immediate business plan relies on the continued stability of the power market in Peru (and Ecuador for the purpose of gas sales to third-party power producers in Ecuador), and our longer-term plans depend on the further development of the electricity market in Ecuador. We are subject to the risks that relatively more favorable business conditions for hydro plants or other competitive issues may adversely affect the demand and prices for the electricity that we expect to produce. We are also subject to the risks associated with potential disruptions or changes to regulations of the natural gas or power markets in these countries. We plan to enter into long-term contracts to sell a significant part of our future power production. A market for long-term purchases of power and natural gas exists, but there can 15 be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such contracts on favorable terms. We will also be subject to the general commercial issues related to being in the power business, including the credit-worthiness of, and collections from future customers and the ability to profitably operate our future power plants. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting that region specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador and adjacent waters means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should that region, for example, experience: · severe weather (such as the effects of “El Niño,” which can cause excessive rainfall and flooding in Peru and Ecuador); · delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; · delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or · changes in the regulatory environment. Because all our properties could experience the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have properties over a wider geographic area. Instability of International Operations. Presently, all of our oil and gas properties are located in South America, specifically Peru and Ecuador. The success and profitability of our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic, labor and social conditions, political instability, tax laws (including host-country export, excise and income taxes and U.S. taxes on foreign operations) and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be conducted. This instability in laws, expenses of operations and fluctuations in exchange rates may make our assumptions about the economic viability of our oil and gas properties incorrect. If these assumptions are incorrect, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenue to cover our costs of operations. Our operations in Peru and Ecuador involve substantial costs and are subject to certain risks because the oil and gas industry in Peru and Ecuador is less developed than in the United States. The oil and gas industries in Peru and Ecuador are not as developed as the oil and gas industry in the United States. As a result, our drilling and development operations in many instances will take longer to complete and may cost more than similar operations in the United States. The availability of technical expertise, specific equipment and supplies may be more limited in Peru and Ecuador than in the United States. Further, once oil and natural gas production is recovered, there are fewer ways to transport it to market for sale. Pipeline and trucking operations are subject to uncertainty and lack of availability. Oil and natural gas pipelines and truck transport travel through miles of territory and are subject to the risk of diversion, destruction or delay. We expect that such factors will continue to subject our international operations to economic and operating risks that companies with domestic operations do not experience. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the unavailability or high cost of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel were particularly severe in Peru and Ecuador, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. We are subject to numerous foreign laws and regulations of the oil and natural gas industry that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive foreign laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and the development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas as well as electrical power generation. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: · work program guarantees and other financial responsibility requirements; · taxation; 16 · royalty requirements; · customer requirements; · operational reporting; and · safety requirements. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: · personal injuries; and · property and natural resource damages; and · governmental infringements and sanctions. If we fail to comply with the terms of certain contracts related to our foreign operations, we could lose our rights under each of those contracts. The terms of each of our contracts with the government of Peru, including our Peruvian license contracts and technical evaluation agreements, require that we perform certain activities, such as seismic interpretations and the drilling of required wells in accordance with those contracts and agreements. Our failure to timely perform those activities as required could result in the loss of our rights under a particular contract or the loss of the amounts we have posted as a guaranty for the performance of such activities, which would likely result in a significant loss to us. We are subject to complex environmental regulatory and permitting laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of our planned operations. The exploration for, and the development, production and sale of, oil and gas in South America are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. For example, we are required to obtain an environmental permit or approval from the government in Peru prior to conducting seismic operations, drilling a well or constructing a pipeline in Peruvian territory, including the waters in offshore Peru, where we intend to conduct future oil and gas operations. Additionally, recent environmental laws and regulations promulgated in Peru impose substantial restrictions on the use of natural resources, interference with the natural environment, location of facilities, handling and storage of hydrocarbons, use of radioactive material, disposal of waste, emission of noise and other activities. The laws create additional monitoring and reporting obligations in the event of any spillage or unregulated discharge of hydrocarbons. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our planned drilling operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Our current permits and authorizations and our ability to get future permits and authorizations may, over time, be susceptible to increased scrutiny, resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. In particular, we may experience delays in obtaining permits and authorizations in Peru and Ecuador necessary for our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs of operations, as well as further restrict our foreign operations. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. These laws and regulations have changed in the past and have generally imposed more stringent requirements that increase operating costs or require capital expenditures in order to remain in compliance. It is also possible that unanticipated developments could cause us to make environmental expenditures that are significantly higher than those we currently anticipate, thereby increasing our overall costs. Failure to comply with new regulations could cause us to suspend or terminate certain operations or subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to implement our plan of operation. Compliance with, or breach of, laws relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment can be costly and could limit our operations. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties in Peru and Ecuador, we are subject to various national, state and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the owner or lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up resulting from operations, subject the owner or lessee to liability for pollution damages and other environmental damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. We have established practices for continued compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We believe the costs incurred by these policies and procedures are necessary business costs in the oil and gas industry. There is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not increase such compliance 17 costs, or have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Our oil and gas operations involve substantial costs and are subject to various economic risks. Our oil and gas operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development and production activities, including the necessity of significant expenditures to locate and acquire producing properties and to drill exploratory wells. The cost and length of time necessary to produce any reserves may be such that it will not be economically viable. In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, development and production activities to be unsuccessful. We also face the risk that the oil and/or gas reserves may be less than anticipated, that we will not have sufficient funds to successfully drill on the property, that we will not be able to market the oil and/or gas due to a lack of a market and that fluctuations in the prices of oil and/or gas will make development of those leases uneconomical. This could result in a total loss of our investment. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel and equipment. In addition, changes in Peruvian government regulation have enabled multinational and regional companies to enter the Peruvian energy market. Competition in our business activities has increased and will increase further, as existing and new participants expand their activities as a result of these regulatory changes. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we have. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, if several companies are interested in an area, Perupetro may choose to call for bids, either through international competitive biddings or through private bidding processes by invitation, and award the contract to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for properties operated by third parties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. The loss of senior management or key technical personnel could adversely affect us. We have engaged certain members of management who have substantial expertise in the type of endeavors we presently conduct. We do not maintain any life insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. To the extent their services become unavailable, we will be required to retain other qualified personnel. There can be no assurance we will be able to recruit and hire qualified persons upon acceptable terms. Similarly, the oil and gas exploration industry requires the use of personnel with substantial technical expertise. In the event that the services of our current technical personnel become unavailable, we will need to hire qualified personnel to take their place. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recruit and hire such persons on acceptable terms. Insurance does not cover all risks. Exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, formations, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment. As a result, we presently maintain insurance coverage in amounts consistent with our business activities and to the extent required by our license contracts. Such coverage includes certain physical damage to the Company’s and third parties’ property, hull and machinery, protection and indemnity, employer’s liability, comprehensive third party general liability, workers compensation and certain pollution and environmental risks. However, we are not fully insured against all risks in all aspects of our business, such as political risk, civil unrest, war, business interruption and reservoir loss or damage. No such insurance coverage can insure for all operational or environmental risks. The occurrence of an event that is not insured or not fully insured could result in losses to us. For example, uninsured environmental damages, property damages or damages related to personal injuries could divert capital needed to implement our plan of operation. If any such uninsured losses are significant, we may have to curtail or suspend our drilling operations until such time as replacement capital is obtained, if ever, and this could have a material impact on our financial position. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations as well as our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial 18 commitments to implement our business plan. With respect to our oil and gas business, any revenues, cash flow, profitability and future rate of growth we achieve will be greatly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and gas. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also expected to be dependent on oil and gas prices. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and gas are subject to potentially wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. Those factors include: · international political conditions (including wars and civil unrest); · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and other actions; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · overall economic conditions. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, if any. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and borrowing capacity, and may require a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. While our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and gas prices increase significantly, exploration and production costs and acquisition costs for additional properties and reserves may also increase. We may not be able to develop a proven reserve base. Our future success will depend upon our ability to find, acquire and develop oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Any reserves we develop will decline as they are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful revitalization activities, or are able to acquire properties containing proven reserves, or both. To develop reserves and achieve production, we must implement our development and production programs, identify and produce previously overlooked or by-passed zones and shut-in wells, acquire additional properties or undertake other replacement activities. Our current strategy is to develop a reserve base, production and cash flow through the development of oil and gas fields to which we have development rights and selective acquisitions of other desirable oil and gas properties where we can utilize new and existing technology. We can give no assurance that our planned development, revitalization, and acquisition activities will result in significant reserves or that we will have success in discovering and producing reserves at economical exploration and development costs. We may not be able to locate geologically satisfactory property, particularly since we will be competing for such property with other oil and gas companies, most of which have much greater financial resources than we do. Moreover, even if desirable properties are available to us, we may not have sufficient funds with which to acquire them. Investor profits, if any, may be limited for the near future. In the past, we have never paid a dividend. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Accordingly, investors in our common stock may not derive any profits from their investment in us for the foreseeable future, other than through any price appreciation of our common stock that may occur. Further, any appreciation in the price of our common stock may be limited or nonexistent as long as we continue to have operating losses. We have not been profitable and have accumulated deficits during our exploratory stage of operations totaling $37,799,937 through December 31, 2006. To date we have not had any revenue or earnings from operations, and we will continue, in all likelihood, to sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues until we are able, if ever, to successfully implement our plan of operation. Additional infusions of capital may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. To finance our operations we plan to sell additional shares of our stock. Any additional equity financing that we receive may involve substantial dilution to our then-existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may issue stock to acquire properties, assets, or businesses. In the event that any such shares are issued, the proportionate ownership and voting power of other shareholders will be reduced. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our 19 board of directors. If we issue shares of preferred stock, such preferred stock may have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale by our current shareholders may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had 54,143,717 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In December, 2006, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 for the resale of 6,500,000 shares of common stock issued to the IFC. This registration statement has not been declared effective by the SEC as of the date of this filing. In addition, we have outstanding 14,006,152 shares of other potentially dilutive securities, which includes 9,450,000 common shares, which may be issued to the former shareholders of BPZ-Texas and two executive officers on an earn-out basis once we are entitled to receive as our proportionate share from gross production from any oil and gas wells owned or operated by us, not less than 2,000 barrels of oil per day or its equivalent (approximately 12 million cubic feet of gas per day) prior to December 28, 2007. We also have an additional 1,156,000 common shares available under our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. The possibility that substantial amounts of shares of our common stock may be sold in the public market may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decrease and thus could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. We are controlled by our officers, directors and entities affiliated with them. In the aggregate, our management and directors own or control approximately 13.4% of our common stock issued as of December 31, 2006. These shareholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The transfer of NFS could result in liability to us because the shares transferred were not registered with the SEC. On September 9, 2004, the day prior to the effective date of the Merger, Navidec assigned all of its pre-merger business operations, assets and liabilities to NFS, and all issued and outstanding shares of NFS were subsequently transferred to the Navidec pre-merger shareholders of record as of September 9, 2004 for no cash consideration. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the transfer and any necessary qualifications or registrations of the NFS shares under applicable securities laws was agreed to be handled by NFS, and we believed, based on information provided by NFS and its advisors, that NFS had undertaken the necessary actions to comply with applicable registration requirements. On July 13, 2006, NFS filed a Registration Statement on Form 10SB with the SEC and an amendment thereto on October 27, 2006. It is our understanding that this Registration Statement has become effective under applicable SEC rules. However, because a registration of the NFS shares was not effective at the time of the transfer of the NFS shares, it might be determined that the distribution of the NFS shares was made without full compliance with applicable registration or qualification requirements under applicable securities laws. As a result, although we took no actions in connection with the transfer, we might incur liability, as a successor to Navidec, by merger, with respect to any damages resulting from such failure to register. If, despite the fact that we did not control the transfer of the NFS shares, regulatory authorities determine that we did not comply with applicable registration requirements with respect to the transfer, fines or other sanctions might be imposed on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 