Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following additional factors may affect our future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business. Except for fiscal years 2003 and 2004, we have had a history of net annual losses. We may not be profitable in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability in the future and we continue to lose money, our operations will not be financially viable. Except for fiscal years 2003 and 2004, we have experienced net annual losses and as of December 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $271 million. We may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets, such as the market for internet commerce. We believe that to achieve and sustain profitability, we must, among other things: • continue to send new and used automotive Leads to Dealers that result in sufficient Dealer transactions to justify our fees; • expand the number of Dealers in our networks; • sustain and expand our relationships with Manufacturers; • assure continued access to a high volume of high quality Leads at acceptable prices from third party sources; • maintain a high degree of customer satisfaction; • provide secure and easy to use websites for consumers; • increase visibility of our brand names; • defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; • design and implement effective internal control systems; • continue to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and • continue to upgrade and enhance our technologies to accommodate expanded service offerings and increased consumer traffic. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving these goals or that if we are successful in achieving these goals, that we will be profitable in the future. If we are not successful in shifting our strategic emphasis from a media centric advertising business model to our core revenue lines of Lead referral, we may not achieve profitability in the future. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we made the strategic decision to shift our emphasis to our core revenue lines of Lead referral and away from the transition to a more media centric advertising business model which was initiated in 2006. Pursuant to this shift in strategy, we undertook significant staff reductions and replaced our Chief Executive Officer. The shift in emphasis was due in large part to the challenging external environment in the automotive industry. Due to our evaluation of the external environment, as well as other factors, we determined that continuing to pursue the transition to a media centric model was unlikely to be successful at this time. Our strategy is now dependent on our ability to increase Lead referral revenue. If we are not successful in increasing Lead referral revenue, then we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. If our Dealer attrition increases, our Dealer network and revenues derived from this network will decrease. We derive a majority of our revenue from fees paid by Dealers participating in our Dealer network. A few agreements with Dealers account for a material amount of our revenue. From time to time, a Dealer 8 Table of Contents or Manufacturer may significantly decrease the number of Dealers participating in our Dealer network or the number of Leads accepted from us. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, we experienced attrition in the number of our Dealers and a decrease in the number of Leads accepted by our Dealers. Our revenues have decreased as a result of this Dealer attrition, and if Dealer attrition increases or continues at the current rate and we are unable to add new Dealers to mitigate the attrition, our revenues will continue to decrease. A material factor affecting Dealer attrition is our ability to provide Dealers with high quality Leads at acceptable prices. High quality Leads are those that result in high closing ratios. Closing ratio is the ratio of the number of vehicles purchased at a Dealer generated from Leads to the total number of Leads sent to that Dealer. In addition, if Manufacturers or Dealers require us to decrease the fees we charge for our services, our revenues will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Generally, our Dealer agreements are cancelable by either party upon 30 days notice. Participating Dealers may terminate their relationship with us for any reason, including an unwillingness to accept our subscription terms or as a result of joining alternative marketing programs. We cannot assure that Dealers will not terminate their agreements with us. Our business is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified Dealers and Manufacturers. In order for us to grow or maintain our Dealer networks, we need to reduce our Dealer attrition. We cannot assure that we will be able to reduce the level of Dealer attrition, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are particularly affected by general economic conditions and in particular the automotive industry. The economic strength of the automotive industry significantly impacts the revenues we derive from Dealers, Manufacturers and other customers. In 2008, the automotive industry entered what is generally considered to be the most challenging environment of the past few decades. North American vehicle sales decreased significantly versus 2007. Dealer consolidations, closings and bankruptcies increased significantly in 2008. Two major U.S. automobile manufacturers, General Motors and Chrysler, were provided with “bailout” funding by the U.S. federal government in December 2008 and January 2009 to meet their liquidity requirements. One or more of the major U.S. based manufacturers could face possible bankruptcy in 2009. The financial pressure in the automotive industry is not contained to the U.S. automobile manufacturers. Toyota Motor Corporation recently announced that it was forecasting its first fiscal year operating loss in 70 years. Certain foreign governments have also discussed plans to assist their auto manufacturers. Auto sales in the United States are expected to continue to remain at low levels throughout 2009. One of the factors generally believed to be a contributing factor to the sharp decline in automotive sales has been the lack of available consumer credit to finance vehicle purchases. If credit availability does not improve, the recovery in sales may be further postponed. If automobile sales and the industry in general do not recover, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Competition could affect our market share, pricing, cost structure and Lead supply. Our success in our Leads businesses is dependent on our ability to originate or acquire and sell high quality Leads in sufficient volumes to our customers at profitable margins. These Leads may be submitted by consumers through our own web properties or purchased from Network Websites. We actively compete for Dealer and Manufacturer customers with companies that maintain automotive Lead referral businesses that are very similar to ours. Several of these competitors may be larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we have. In addition to competition for customers, we also compete with several of these companies in the acquisition of Leads from third party Lead suppliers. If we lose customers or quality Lead supply volume to our competitors, or if our pricing or cost to acquire Leads is impacted, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely impacted. Our success in our advertising business is dependent on our ability to attract and acquire consumers to our web properties and monetize that traffic at profitable margins with advertisers. Our consumer facing websites compete with offerings from the major portals, transaction based sites, 9 Table of Contents automotive verticals (websites with content that is primarily automotive in nature) and numerous lifestyle websites. Our advertising business is characterized by minimal barriers to entry, and new competitors may be able to launch competitive services at relatively low costs. If our websites do not provide a compelling, differentiated user experience, we may lose visitors to competing sites. Further, if our website traffic continues to decline, we may lose relevance to our major advertisers who may reduce or eliminate their advertising buys. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, many of which have substantially more technical and financial resources as well as existing brand recognition. In addition, competitive pressures may result in increased marketing costs, decreased website traffic or loss of market share or otherwise may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that may make it difficult for investors to predict our future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to unforeseen events affecting the economy and industries in which we operate. Other factors that may adversely affect our quarterly operating results include our Lead volume, which fluctuates with automotive industry sales volume that has some measure of seasonality. Typically, volume is highest in the spring and summer months, with lower volume in the fall and winter months. As seasonality occurs, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Seasonality in the automotive industry, internet and commercial on-line service usage and advertising expenditures is likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Governmental Regulation We have identified below in this section entitled “Risks Associated with Government Regulation” factors relating to government regulation certain areas of existing government regulation, which if changed or interpreted to apply to our business, we believe could be costly to us. These laws and regulations include motor vehicle brokerage licensing laws, motor vehicle dealer licensing laws, franchise laws, insurance licensing laws, financial services laws, data security and privacy laws, and tax laws. Uncertainty exists in the application of various laws and regulations to our business. New laws or regulations applicable to our business, or expansion or interpretation of existing laws and regulations to apply to our business, could subject us to licensing, claims, judgments and remedies, including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices, and could increase administrative costs or adversely affect our business. Although we do not believe that existing laws or regulations materially and adversely impact us, our business could be significantly affected by different interpretations or applications of existing laws or regulations, future laws or regulations, or actions or rulings by judicial or regulatory authorities. We operate in a regulatory climate in which there is uncertainty as to the application of various laws and regulations to our business. Our operations may be subjected to adoption, expansion or interpretation of various laws and regulations, and compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to obtain appropriate licenses at an undeterminable and possibly significant initial and annual expense. These additional expenditures may increase future overhead, thereby potentially reducing our future results of operations. There can be no assurance that future laws or regulations or interpretations or expansions of existing laws or regulations will not impose requirements on internet commerce that could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of e-commerce and internet marketing, restrict our present business practices, require us to implement costly compliance procedures or expose us and/or our customers to potential liability, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business. We may be considered to “operate” or “do business” in states where our customers conduct their business, resulting in regulatory action. In the event any state’s regulatory requirements impose state specific requirements on us or include us within an industry-specific regulatory scheme, we may be required to modify our marketing programs in that state in a manner that may undermine the program’s attractiveness to consumers or Dealers. In the alternative, if we determine that the licensing and related requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in such state. In each case, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents If automotive dealer and/or broker laws apply to us we may be required to modify or eliminate our marketing programs. If we are unable to market our services in the manner we currently do, our revenues may decrease and our business may suffer. All states comprehensively regulate vehicles sales and lease transactions, including strict licensure requirements for Dealers and, in some states, brokers. Most of these laws and regulations, we believe, specifically address only traditional vehicle purchase and lease transactions, not internet-based transactions. We do not believe that our marketing services qualify as automobile brokerage activity and, therefore, we do not believe that state motor vehicle dealer or broker licensing requirements apply to us. However, if any state’s regulatory requirements relating to motor vehicle dealers or brokers are deemed applicable to us and we do not comply with those regulatory requirements, we may become subject to fines, penalties or other requirements and may be required to modify our marketing programs or pricing models in those states in a manner that undermines the attractiveness of the program to consumers or Dealers. If we determine that the licensing or other regulatory requirements in a given state are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in that state. In each case, our revenues may decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In some states we have modified our marketing programs or pricing models to reduce uncertainty regarding our compliance with local laws. As we introduce new services, we may need to incur additional costs associated with additional licensing regulations and regulatory requirements. If franchise laws apply to us we may be required to modify or eliminate our marketing programs. If we are unable to market our services in the manner we currently do, our revenues may decrease and our business may suffer. We believe that neither our relationship with our Dealers nor our Dealer subscription agreements constitute “franchises” under federal or state franchise laws. However, if any state’s regulatory requirements relating to franchises or our method of business impose additional requirements on us or include us within an industry-specific regulatory scheme, we may be required to modify our marketing programs in that state in a manner that undermines the program’s attractiveness to consumers or Dealers. If our relationship or written agreement with our Dealers were found to be a “franchise” under federal or state franchise laws, we could be subject to additional requirements, such as franchise disclosure and registration requirements, and limitations on our ability to effect changes in our relationships with our Dealers, which may negatively impact our ability to compete and cause our revenues to decrease and our business to suffer. If we become subject to fines or other penalties or if we determine that the franchise and related requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in that state. If this happens, our revenues may decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If financial broker licensing requirements apply to us in states where we are not currently licensed, we will be required to obtain additional licenses and our business may suffer. We provide a connection through our websites that allows consumers to obtain finance information and submit Leads for vehicle financing to third party lenders. We also acquire Leads from third parties. We receive marketing fees from financial institutions or Dealers in connection with this advertising activity. We do not demand nor do we receive any fees from consumers for this service. In the event states require us to be licensed as a financial broker, we may be unable to comply with a state’s laws or regulations, or we could be required to incur significant fees and expenses to obtain any financial broker required license and comply with regulatory requirements. In the event states require us to be licensed and we are unable to do so, or we are otherwise unable to comply with laws or regulations required by changes in current operations or the introduction of new services, we could be subject to fines or other penalties or be compelled to discontinue operations in those states, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If insurance licensing requirements apply to us in states where we are not currently licensed, we will be required to obtain additional licenses and our business may suffer. We provide links on our websites enabling consumers to receive quotes for insurance and extended warranty coverage from third parties and submit quote. All on-line applications for quotes are completed on the respective insurance carriers’ or other third party websites. We receive marketing fees from participants in connection with this advertising activity. We do not receive any premiums from consumers nor do we charge consumers fees for our services. We do not believe that these activities require us to be licensed under state insurance laws. However, if any state insurance licensing laws were determined to be applicable to us and if we are required to be licensed and we are unable to do so, or we are otherwise unable to comply with laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties or be compelled to discontinue operations in those states, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in the taxation of internet commerce may result in increased costs. Because our business is dependent on the internet, the adoption of new local, state or federal laws or regulations may decrease the growth of internet usage or marketing or the acceptance of internet commerce which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and increase our costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Tax authorities in a number of states are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in internet commerce. New state tax laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations may subject us to additional state sales, use and income taxes. Data Security and Privacy and Technology Risks Our business is subject to various laws and regulations relating to data security and privacy. New data security and privacy laws and regulations may be adopted regarding the internet or other on-line services that could limit our business flexibility or cause us to incur higher compliance costs. Compliance with anti-spam laws and regulations may impose significant costs and burdens on our e-mail marketing activities, and violations of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or other enforcement actions. Among other laws and regulations, federal and state legislation regulating e-mail communications and internet advertising, such as proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited e-mail (commonly known as “spam”) may adversely affect our ability to market our services to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Violation of these laws may result in monetary fines or penalties or damage to our reputation. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, became effective in the United States on January 1, 2004. CAN-SPAM imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial e-mail. In addition, the language of CAN-SPAM contains ambiguities, not all rules implementing CAN-SPAM have yet been promulgated, and courts have not yet interpreted key provisions of CAN-SPAM. Depending on how the law is interpreted and applied, CAN-SPAM may impose significant costs and burdens on our e-mail marketing practices. Failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations may significantly impact our internet Leads referral business. Various laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from our users, advertisers, and affiliates. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data and personal information. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders or other federal or state privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users, advertisers, or Lead referral and advertising affiliates which could adversely affect our business. Proposed legislation or regulations 12 Table of Contents concern data privacy and retention issues related to our business, and it is not possible to predict whether or when this or other legislation or regulations will be adopted. Certain proposals, if adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease in our user registrations and revenues. In addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are currently unsettled. Increased security risks of on-line Leads collection and referral, advertising and e-commerce may cause us to incur significant expenses and may negatively impact our credibility and business. A significant issue for on-line businesses like ours is the secure transmission of confidential and personal information over public networks. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy have been significant barriers to growth in consumer use of the internet, on-line advertising, and e-commerce. Despite our implementation of security measures, however, our computer systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptive harms and security breaches. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may specifically compromise our security measures. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding website visitors, whether through breach of our network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our reputation and brands, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain our audiences, or subject us to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and thereby harm our business and operating results. If consumers experience identity theft after using any of our websites, we may be exposed to liability, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation. To the extent that identity theft gives rise to reluctance to use our websites or a decline in consumer confidence in financial transactions over the internet, our business could be adversely affected. Alleged or actual breaches of the network of one of our business partners or competitors whom consumers associate with us could also harm our reputation and brands. In addition, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. For example, California law requires companies that maintain data on California residents to inform individuals of any security breaches that result in their personal information being stolen. Because our success depends on the acceptance of on-line services and e-commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Internet fraud has been increasing over the past few years, and fraudulent on-line transactions, should they continue to increase in prevalence, could also adversely affect the customer experience and therefore our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our advertisements by persons seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to us. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks on an advertisement displayed on our website in order to generate revenue to us and to increase the cost for the advertiser. If we are unable to monitor and prevent this type of fraudulent activity, we may have to issue retroactive refunds of amounts previously paid to us if any such fraud is later detected. Such fraud could lead advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue. Our success is dependent on keeping pace with advances in technology. If we are unable to keep pace with advances in technology, consumers may stop using our services and our revenues will decrease. If we are required to invest substantial amounts in technology, our results of operations will suffer. The internet and electronic commerce markets are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements, frequent new service and product introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing websites and technology obsolete. These market characteristics are intensified by the emerging nature of the market and the fact that many companies are expected to introduce new internet products and services in the near future. If we are unable to adapt to changing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our performance will depend, in part, 13 Table of Contents on our ability to continue to enhance our existing services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our websites, or other proprietary technology to customer requirements or to emerging industry standards. In addition, if we are required to invest substantial amounts in technology in order to keep pace with technological advances, our results of operations will suffer. Securities Market Risks The public market for our common stock may be volatile, especially since market prices for internet-related and technology stocks have often been unrelated to operating performance. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, but we cannot assure that an active trading market will be sustained or that the market price of the common stock will not decline. The stock market in general has experienced significant price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • historical and anticipated operating metrics such as the number of participating dealers, the visitors to our websites and the frequency with which they transact; • announcements of new product or service offerings; • technological innovations; • competitive developments, including actions by automotive manufacturers; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to meet such estimates; • conditions and trends in the internet, electronic commerce and automotive industries; • our ability to comply with the conditions to continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting the technology or automotive industry, and • general market or economic conditions and other factors. Further, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Global Market, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market factors have affected and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates, energy prices, international currency fluctuations, terrorist acts, military actions or wars, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies with publicly traded securities. This litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market if we are not able to satisfy continued listing requirements, and if this were to occur, the price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected and the ability to buy and sell our stock may be less orderly and efficient. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Global Market is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Global Market listing. 14 Table of Contents The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the closing minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. Our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share since October 1, 2008, and there can be no assurances made that we will satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC has implemented a temporary suspension of its enforcement of the minimum $1.00 closing bid price and minimum market value for publicly held shares continued listing rules. This temporary suspension, originally scheduled to expire on January 19, 2009, was extended and currently will remain in effect through April 19, 2009, unless further extended. If our common stock were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, the price of our common stock, the ability of holders to sell such stock, and our ability to raise additional capital will likely be adversely affected. If our common stock is delisted and thereafter traded in the over-the-counter market, the ability to buy and sell our stock could be less orderly and efficient and more costly. If we sought to relist our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market we would be required to comply with all of the initial listing requirements to be relisted on the NASDAQ Global Market, which in some instances are more stringent than the continued listing requirements. We rely on third-party providers for our primary internet connections and technologies, and environmental controls, and any errors, failures or disruption in the services provided by these third parties could significantly harm our business and operating results. A significant portion of our technology infrastructure and software is collocated at third parties’ facilities, and maintained or operated by third parties. Any failure of these third parties to prevent failures in their technology, failure to foresee and prepare for growth and expansion of their systems, or failure to properly secure and defend their solutions could adversely affect our operations. In addition significant natural disasters such as earthquakes, could negatively affect our operations. We rely upon third parties for the distribution and acceleration of our website content. Failures of these third parties to continue their operations, foresee trends in technology infrastructure growth or protect their solution from malicious software and attacks could significantly affect the delivery of our website services. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the internet and software industries. We expect that internet technologies and software products and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Enforcement actions to protect our intellectual property could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete depends upon our proprietary systems and technology. While we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights, we believe that the technical and creative skills of our personnel, continued development of our proprietary systems and technology, brand name recognition and reliable website maintenance are more essential in establishing and maintaining a Leadership position and strengthening our brands. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot assure that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available where our products and services are made available on-line. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. We recently filed a lawsuit against multiple 15 Table of Contents defendants to protect one of our patents, and are defendants in two other patent litigation matters, one of which is a declaratory judgment action regarding one of our patents. Litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For additional information regarding litigation, see Part II, Item 8, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” of this Annual Report on Form 10K. We face risk of claims from third parties relating to intellectual property. These claims and liabilities could harm our business. There can be no assurance that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of infringement, even if unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could materially and adversely affect our business. If we are not successful, we may be subject to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief and monetary damages which may be trebled in the case willful infringements. We are currently involved in patent litigation claiming that we infringe certain patent rights of third parties. For additional information regarding litigation, see Part II, Item 8, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” of this Annual Report on Form 10K. We could be adversely affected by other litigation. If we were subject to a significant adverse litigation outcome, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, we are involved in litigation or legal matters not related to intellectual property rights and arising from the normal course of our business activities. The actions filed against us and other litigation or legal matters, even if not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and an adverse outcome in litigation could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Part II, Item 8, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We could be adversely affected by actions of third parties that could subject us to litigation that could significantly and adversely affect our business. We could face liability for information retrieved or obtained from or transmitted over the internet by third parties and liability for products sold over the internet by third parties. We could be exposed to liability with respect to third-party information that may be accessible through our websites, links or car review services. These claims might, for example, be made for defamation, negligence, patent, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury, breach of contract, unfair competition, false advertising, invasion of privacy or other legal theories based on the nature, content or copying of these materials. These claims might assert, among other things that, by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties we should be liable for copyright or trademark infringement or other wrongful actions by such third parties through those websites. It is also possible that, if any third-party content provided on our websites contains errors, consumers could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on such information. Any claims could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We also enter into agreements with other companies under which any revenue that results from the purchase or use of services through direct links to or from our websites or on our websites is shared. In addition, we acquire personal information and data in the form of Leads purchased from third party 16 Table of Contents websites involving consumers who submitted personally identifiable information and data to the third parties and not directly to us. These arrangements may expose us to additional legal risks and uncertainties, including disputes with such parties regarding revenue sharing, local, state and federal government regulation and potential liabilities to consumers of these services, even if we do not provide the services ourselves or have direct contact with the consumer. These liabilities can include liability for violations of data security and privacy laws and regulations by such third parties. We cannot assure that any indemnification provided to us in our agreements with these third parties, if available, will be adequate. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain additional financing for our future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain additional financing we may not be able to continue to operate our business. Under our current operating plan for 2009, we currently anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and other cash requirements at least for the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds sooner, however, in order to develop new or enhance existing services or products or to respond to competitive pressures, or to acquire assets or businesses. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Recent macro-economic conditions include reported reductions in available credit. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures or acquire assets or businesses would be significantly limited. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business may also be materially and adversely affected in the event additional financing is not available when required. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us or limit the price third parties are willing to pay for our stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws relating to our corporate governance and provisions in our stockholder rights plan could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, and could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions allow us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. These provisions provide that the board of directors is divided into three classes, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or change in our management because fewer than a majority of the board of directors are up for election at each annual meeting. In addition, these provisions impose various procedural and other requirements which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect corporate actions such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control of us. Under the stockholder rights plan, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, all rights holders, except the acquirer, will be entitled to acquire at the then exercise price of a right that number of shares of our common stock which, at the time, has a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. In addition, under certain circumstances, all right holders, other than the acquirer, will be entitled to receive at the then exercise price of a right that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which, at the time, has a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. The initial exercise price of a right is $65. These charter and rights provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The issuance of preferred stock also could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, the statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or did own 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Section 203 could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. 17 Table of Contents Our decision to evaluate strategic alternatives may have a negative impact on employee retention, as well as customer and supplier relationships. In August 2008 we engaged RBC Capital Markets Corporation (RBC), an investment banking firm, to act as a financial advisor and to assist us in exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value. The public disclosure of this action may create concern among our employees, increasing turnover and disrupting key business activities. We have implemented a key employee retention program to address retention risks, but there can be no assurance that this retention program will be successful in retaining employees. Additionally, our decision to evaluate strategic alternatives may create concerns among our customers and suppliers regarding our stability, impacting our ability to acquire and retain customers and maintain supplier relationships. The failure to retain employees or to acquire or retain business relations could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our internal controls and procedures fail, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In making its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, management used the criteria described in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Management determined that we had no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors and fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. We have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and there is no assurance that we will not have one or more material weaknesses in the future resulting from failure of our internal controls and procedures. Our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis could be adversely affected by a failure in our internal control over financial reporting. If our financial statements are not fairly presented, investors may not have an accurate understanding of our operating results and financial condition. If our financial statements are not timely filed with the SEC, we could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If either or both of these events occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our ability to operate our business and the market price of our common stock. In addition, a failure in our internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 