ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer, and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to the Business We rely upon a few customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one or more of these customers, or a significant loss, reduction or rescheduling of orders from any of these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell most of our products to a small number of customers, and while we are continually seeking to expand our customer base, we expect this will continue. For the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, sales to Nokia Siemens accounted for approximately 34% of our sales. Nokia Siemens accounted for approximately 31% of our revenues in 2008, and Alcatel-Lucent accounted for approximately 17% of our revenues in fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2009, our sales to Alcatel-Lucent declined below 10% of our revenues. Any decline in business with our original equipment manufacturer customers, including Nokia Siemens and Alcatel-Lucent, will have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For fiscal 2009, our total sales declined by 36% compared with fiscal 2008. During this same period, our sales to Nokia Siemens declined approximately 30% which has had a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our future success is dependent upon the continued purchases of our products by a small number of customers such as Nokia Siemens, Alcatel-Lucent, other original equipment manufacturers and network operator customers. Any fluctuations in demand from such customers or other customers will negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to broaden our customer base and expand relationships with major wireless original equipment manufacturers and major operators of wireless networks, our business will continue to be impacted by unanticipated demand fluctuations due to our dependence on a small number of customers. Unanticipated demand fluctuations can have a negative impact on our revenues and business, and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a small number of major customers exposes us to numerous other risks, including: • a slowdown or delay in deployment of wireless networks by any one or more customers could significantly reduce demand for our products; • reductions in a single customer’s forecasts and demand could result in excess inventories; • the current economic crisis could negatively affect one or more of our major customers and cause them to significantly reduce operations, or file for bankruptcy; • consolidation of customers can reduce demand as well as increase pricing pressure on our products due to increased purchasing leverage; • each of our customers has significant purchasing leverage over us to require changes in sales terms including pricing, payment terms and product delivery schedules; • direct competition should a customer decide to increase its level of internal designing and/or manufacturing of wireless communication network products; and • concentration of accounts receivable credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if one of our major customers declared bankruptcy or delayed payment of their receivables. Our operating results have been adversely impacted by the worldwide economic crisis and credit tightening. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated due to the credit crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, recessionary concerns, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Our revenues declined approximately 21% in the fourth quarter of 2009 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. All of these factors combined are having a negative impact on the availability of financial capital which is contributing to a reduction in demand for infrastructure in the wireless communication market. These conditions make it difficult for our customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, causing domestic and foreign businesses to slow or suspend spending on our products and services. As customers face this challenging economic time, they are finding it difficult to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which has resulted in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If this continues to occur, our revenues will be further reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of 12 Table of Contents operations. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days of sales outstanding may increase significantly, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot predict the magnitude, timing or duration of this economic recession or its impact on the wireless industry. We have previously experienced significant reductions in demand for our products by certain customers and if this continues, our operating results will be adversely impacted. We have a history of significant unanticipated reductions in demand that demonstrate the risks related to our customer and industry concentration levels. While our revenues have increased at times during fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, a significant portion of this increase was due to our various acquisitions. During fiscal year 2009, the global economic crisis and related recession continued to have an impact on our customers and their demand for our products. We currently anticipate that our customers may continue to reduce their demand for wireless infrastructure products in the near term, thereby negatively impacting all companies within our industry. This possible reduction in demand would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, in the past we have experienced significant unanticipated reductions in wireless network operator demand as well as significant delays in demand for 3G and 4G, or next generation service based products, due to the high projected capital cost of building such networks and market concerns regarding the inoperability of such network protocols. In combination with these market issues, a majority of wireless network operators have in the past regularly reduced their capital spending plans in order to improve their overall cash flow. There is a substantial likelihood that the global economic recession will continue throughout 2010 and potentially into 2011, thereby having a negative impact on network operator deployment spending plans. The impact of any future reduction in capital spending by wireless network operators, coupled with any delays in deployment of wireless networks, will result in reduced demand for our products, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. We will need additional capital in the future and such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. As of January 3, 2010, we had approximately $63.0 million of cash, with $2.6 million of it restricted. We cannot provide any guarantee that we will generate sufficient cash in the future to maintain or grow our operations over the long-term. We rely upon our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund our business. If we are not able to generate positive cash flow from operations, we may need to utilize sources of financing such as our Credit Agreement or other sources of cash. While our Credit Agreement provides us with additional sources of liquidity, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to fund existing operations or to take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid international expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies. In addition, if our business further deteriorates, we might be unable to maintain compliance with the covenants in our Credit Agreement which could result in reduced availability under the Credit Agreement or an event of default under the Credit Agreement, or could make the Credit Agreement unavailable to us. If we are not successful in growing our businesses, reducing our inventories and accounts receivable and managing the worldwide aspects of our Company, our operations may not generate positive cash flow, and we may consume our cash resources faster than we anticipate. Such losses would make it difficult to obtain new sources of financing. In addition, if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to raise additional funds to repay our $280.9 million of remaining outstanding convertible subordinated debt that we issued in 2004 and 2007. The holders of this convertible subordinated debt may require us to repurchase $130.9 million in outstanding debt issued in 2004 on November 15, 2011 and $150.0 million in outstanding debt issued in 2007 on October 1, 2014. Our ability to secure additional financing or sources of funding is dependent upon numerous factors, including the current outlook of our business, our credit rating and the market price of our Common Stock, all of which are directly impacted by our ability to increase revenues and generate profits. In addition, the availability of new financing is dependent upon functioning debt and equity markets with financing available on reasonable terms. Given the recent credit crisis, there can be no guarantee that such a market would be available to us. If such a market is not available, we may be unable to raise new financing, which would negatively impact our business and possibly impact our ability to maintain operations as presently conducted. Our ability to increase revenues and generate profits is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including the likelihood of decreased revenues in the current macroeconomic environment. Any significant decrease in our revenues or profitability could reduce our operating cash flows and erode our existing cash balances. Our ability to reduce our inventories and accounts receivable and improve our cash flow is dependent on numerous risks and uncertainties, and if we are not able to reduce our inventories, we will not generate the cash required to operate our business. Our ability to secure additional financing is also dependent upon not only our business profitability, but also the credit markets, which have recently become highly constrained due to credit concerns arising from the subprime mortgage lending market and subsequent worldwide economic recession. If we are unable to secure additional financing or such financing is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our operations, otherwise respond to unanticipated competitive pressures, or repay our convertible debt. 13 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of our customers. One of our original equipment manufacturer customers, Nortel, filed for bankruptcy protection in the first quarter of 2009, and in the third quarter of 2009, they received government approval of the sale of their assets. Given the current economic climate, it is possible that one or more of our other customers will suffer significant financial difficulties, including potentially filing for bankruptcy protection. In such an event, the demand for our products from these customers may decline significantly or cease completely. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to generate new demand to offset any such reductions from existing customers. If we are unable to continue to generate new demand, our revenues will decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. We may not successfully evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers. While we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, greater than anticipated nonpayment and delinquency rates could harm our financial results and liquidity. Given the current global economic recession, there are potential risks of greater than anticipated customer defaults. If the financial condition of any of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur unanticipated costs as we complete the restructuring of our business. We have previously encountered difficulties and delays in integrating and consolidating operations which have had a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to successfully integrate these operations could undermine the anticipated benefits and synergies of the restructuring, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated benefits and synergies of our restructurings relate to cost savings associated with operational efficiencies and greater economies of scale. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a smooth and successful integration of our business. We may need to undertake restructuring actions in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with cost cutting measures and measures to improve the efficiency of our operations. As a result of economic conditions, we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in restructuring charges that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such potential restructuring actions could include cash expenditures that would reduce our available cash balances, which would have a negative impact on our business. The potential for increased commodity and energy costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The world economy has experienced significant fluctuations in the price of oil and energy during 2008 and 2009. Such fluctuations resulted in significant price increases which translated into higher freight and transportation costs and, in certain cases, higher raw material supply costs. These higher costs negatively impacted our production costs. We were not able to pass on these higher costs to our customers, and if we insist on raising prices, our customers may curtail their purchases from us. The costs of energy and items directly related to the cost of energy will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, political conditions and the weather. Further increases in energy prices or the onset of inflationary pressures could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: • the lack of obligation by our customers to purchase their forecasted demand for our products; • costs associated with restructuring activities, including severance, inventory obsolescence and facility closure costs; • variations in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments; • costs associated with consolidating acquisitions; • high fixed expenses that increase operating expenses, especially during a quarter with a sales shortfall; 14 Table of Contents • product failures and associated warranty and in-field service support costs; and • discounts given to certain customers for large volume purchases. We have regularly generated a large percentage of our revenues in the last month of a quarter. Because we attempt to ship products quickly after we receive orders, we may not always have a significant backlog of unfilled orders at the start of each quarter and we may be required to book a substantial portion of our orders during the quarter in which these orders ship. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Any shortfall in sales relative to our quarterly expectations or any delay of customer orders would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past. Despite these factors, we, along with our contract manufacturers, maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than their forecasted orders or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers choose to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there might be inadequate inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable indicators of our future performance. Future revenues and operating results may not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors. In either case, the price of our Common Stock could be materially adversely affected. Our average sales prices have declined, and we anticipate that the average sales prices for our products will continue to decline and negatively impact our gross profit margins. Wireless service providers are continuing to place pricing pressure on wireless infrastructure manufacturers, which in turn, has resulted in lower selling prices for our products, with certain competitors aggressively reducing prices in an effort to increase their market share. The consolidation of original equipment manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens is concentrating purchasing power at the surviving entities, placing further pricing pressures on the products we sell to such customers. Moreover, the current economic downturn has caused wireless service providers to become more aggressive in demanding price reductions as they attempt to reduce costs. As a result, we are forced to further reduce our prices to such customers, which has had a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not agree to lower our prices as some customers request, those customers may stop purchasing our products, which would significantly impact our business. We believe that the average sales prices of our products will continue to decline for the foreseeable future. The weighted average sales price for our products declined approximately 2% to 11% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009 and we expect that this will continue going forward. Since wireless infrastructure manufacturers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we must often commit to price reductions for our products before we know how, or if, we can obtain such cost reductions. With ongoing consolidation in our industry, the increased size of many of our customers allows them to exert greater pressure on us to reduce prices. In addition, average sales prices are affected by price discounts negotiated without firm orders for large volume purchases by certain customers. To offset declining average sales prices, we must reduce manufacturing costs and ultimately develop new products with lower costs or higher average sales prices. If we cannot achieve such cost reductions or increases in average selling prices, our gross margins will decline. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers could become competitors. Many of our customers, particularly our original equipment manufacturer customers, internally design and/or manufacture their own wireless communications network products. These customers also continuously evaluate whether to manufacture their own wireless communications network products or utilize contract manufacturers to produce their own internal designs. Certain of our customers regularly produce or design wireless communications network products in an attempt to replace products manufactured by us. In addition, some customers threaten to undertake such activities if we do not agree to their requested price reductions. We believe that these practices will continue. In the event that our customers manufacture or design their own wireless communications network products, these customers might reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products, which would result in reduced revenues and would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Wireless infrastructure equipment manufacturers with internal manufacturing capabilities, including many of our customers, could also sell wireless communications network products externally to other manufacturers, thereby competing directly with us. In addition, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may decide to 15 Table of Contents produce competing products directly for our customers and, effectively, compete against us. If, for any reason, our customers produce their wireless communications network products internally, increase the percentage of their internal production, require us to participate in joint venture manufacturing with them, require us to reduce our prices, engage our suppliers or contract manufacturers to manufacture competing products, or otherwise compete directly against us, our revenues would decrease, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is tied to the growth of the wireless services communications market and our future revenue growth is dependent upon the expected increase in the size of this market. Our revenues come from the sale of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. Our future success depends solely upon the growth and increased availability of wireless communications services. Wireless communications services may not grow at a rate fast enough to create demand for our products, as we have experienced periodically throughout the past six years. Some of our network operator customers rely on credit to finance the build-out or expansion of their wireless networks. The current credit environment and the worldwide economic recession resulted in lower revenues in fiscal 2009 and will likely result in a reduction of demand from some of our customers in the near term. Another example of unanticipated reductions was during fiscal 2006 and into fiscal 2007, when a major North American wireless network operator significantly reduced demand for new products. In addition, during the same period, several major equipment manufacturers began a process of consolidating their operations, which significantly reduced their demand for our products. This reduced spending on wireless networks had a negative impact on our operating results. If wireless network operators delay or reduce levels of capital spending, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to risks of excess inventory or inventory carrying costs. We use contract manufacturers to produce printed circuit boards for our products, and in certain cases, to manufacture finished products. If our contract manufacturers are unable to respond in a timely fashion to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand, resulting in lost revenues. Alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. In the past, we have been required to take delivery of materials from our suppliers and subcontractors that were in excess of our requirements, and we have previously recognized charges and expenses related to such excess material. We expect that we will incur such costs in the future. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the use of all inventories is reduced since we do not have full operating control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers and manage the costs associated with our contract manufacturers, we may be required to purchase excess inventory and incur additional inventory carrying costs. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Future additions to, or consolidations of manufacturing operations may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals associated with such actions. We have previously added new manufacturing locations, as well as consolidated existing manufacturing locations in an attempt to achieve operating cost savings and improved operating results. We continually evaluate these types of opportunities. We may acquire or invest in new locations, or we may consolidate existing locations into either existing or new locations in order to reduce our manufacturing costs. In the second half of 2009, we established a new manufacturing location in Thailand. Such activities subject us to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • difficulty integrating the new locations into our existing operations; • difficulty consolidating existing locations into one location; • inability to achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the specific new location or consolidation; • significant unanticipated additional costs incurred to start up a new manufacturing location; • inability to attract key technical and managerial personnel to a new location; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel due to the consolidation of locations to a new location; 16 Table of Contents • diversion of our management’s attention from other business issues; • failure of our review and approval process to identify significant issues, including issues related to manpower, raw material supplies, legal and financial contingencies. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any investment in a new manufacturing location or consolidation of locations, our business would be adversely affected. Future acquisitions, or strategic alliances, may present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals intended at the time of any acquisition or strategic alliance. In the past, we have acquired and made investments in other companies, products and technologies and entered into strategic alliances with other companies. We continually evaluate these types of opportunities. We may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies, or we may enter into joint ventures, mergers or strategic alliances with other companies. Such transactions subject us to numerous risks, including the following: • difficulty integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company; • inability to achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits of the specific acquisition or strategic alliance; • significant additional warranty costs due to product failures and or design differences that were not identified during due diligence, which could result in charges to earnings if they are not recoverable from the seller; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel from the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to product quality, product architecture, legal and financial contingencies, and product development; and • significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any acquisition or joint venture, our business would be adversely affected. We depend on single sources or limited sources for key components and products, which exposes us to risks related to product shortages or delays, as well as potential product quality issues, all of which could increase the cost of our products thereby reducing our operating profits. A number of our products and the parts used in our products are available from only one or a limited number of outside suppliers due to unique component designs, as well as certain quality and performance requirements. To take advantage of volume pricing discounts, we also purchase certain products, and along with our contract manufacturers, purchase certain customized components from single or limited sources. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, shortages of single-source and limited-source components. Shortages have compelled us to adjust our product designs and production schedules and have caused us to miss customer requested delivery dates. To date, missed customer delivery dates have not had a material adverse impact on our financial results. If single-source or limited-source components become unavailable in sufficient quantities in the desired time periods, are discontinued or are available only on unsatisfactory terms, we would be required to purchase comparable components from other sources and may be required to redesign our products to use such components which could delay production and delivery of our products. If production and delivery of our products are delayed such that we do not meet the agreed upon delivery dates of our customers, such delays could result in lost revenues due to customer cancellations, as well as potential financial penalties payable to our customers. Any such loss of revenue or financial penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on certain single-source and limited-source components and products also exposes us and our contract manufacturers to quality control risks if these suppliers experience a failure in their production process or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements. A failure in a single-source or limited-source component or product could force us to repair or replace a product utilizing replacement components. If we cannot obtain comparable replacements or redesign our products, we could lose customer orders or incur additional costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to develop products that are sufficiently manufacturable, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Manufacturing our products is a complex process that requires significant time and expertise to meet customers’ specifications. Successful manufacturing is substantially dependent upon the ability to assemble and tune these products to meet specifications in an efficient manner. In this regard, we largely depend on our staff of assembly workers and trained technicians at our internal manufacturing operations in the United States, Europe and Asia, as well as our contract 17 Table of Contents manufacturers’ staff of assembly workers and trained technicians. If we cannot design our products to minimize the manual assembly and tuning process, or if we or our contract manufacturers lose a number of trained assembly workers and technicians or are unable to attract additional trained assembly workers or technicians, we may be unable to have our products manufactured in a cost effective manner. We may fail to develop products that are of adequate quality and reliability, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We have had quality problems with our products including those we have acquired in acquisitions. We may have similar product quality problems in the future. We have replaced components in some products and replaced entire products in accordance with our product warranties. We believe that our customers will demand that our products meet increasingly stringent performance and reliability standards. If we cannot keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and new communications protocols, if we fail to adequately improve product quality and meet the quality standards of our customers, or if our contract manufacturers fail to achieve the quality standards of our customers, we risk losing business which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Design problems could also damage relationships with existing and prospective customers and could limit our ability to market our products to large wireless infrastructure manufacturers, many of which build their own products and have stringent quality control standards. In addition, we have incurred significant costs addressing quality issues from products that we have acquired in certain of our acquisitions. We are also required to honor certain warranty claims for products that we have acquired in our recent acquisitions. While we seek recovery of amounts that we have paid, or may pay in the future to resolve warranty claims through indemnification from the original manufacturer, this can be a costly and time consuming process. If we are unable to hire and retain highly-qualified technical and managerial personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Competition for personnel, particularly qualified engineers, is intense. The loss of a significant number of qualified engineers, as well as the failure to recruit and train additional technical personnel in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives may also have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our success depends upon the knowledge and experience of our management and technical personnel and our ability to market our existing products and to develop new products. Our employees are generally employed on an at- will basis and do not have non-compete agreements. Therefore, we have had, and may continue to have, employees leave us and go to work for competitors. There are significant risks related to our internal and contract manufacturing operations in Asia and Europe. As part of our manufacturing strategy, we utilize contract manufacturers to make finished goods and supply printed circuit boards in China, Europe, India, Singapore and Thailand. We also maintain our own manufacturing operations in China, Estonia, the United States and our newly established manufacturing facility in Thailand. The Chinese legal system lacks transparency, which gives the Chinese central and local government authorities a higher degree of control over our business in China than is customary in the United States which makes the process of obtaining necessary regulatory approval in China inherently unpredictable. In addition, the protection accorded our proprietary technology and know-how under the Chinese and Thai legal systems is not as strong as in the United States and, as a result, we may lose valuable trade secrets and competitive advantage. Also, manufacturing our products and utilizing contract manufacturers, as well as other suppliers throughout the Asia region, exposes our business to the risk that our proprietary technology and ownership rights may not be protected or enforced to the extent that they may be in the United States. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform and a policy of welcoming foreign investments during the past two decades, it is possible that the Chinese government will change its current policies in the future, making continued business operations in China difficult or unprofitable. In September 2006, Thailand experienced a military coup which overturned the existing government. In late 2008, anti-government protests and civilian occupations culminated with a court-ordered ouster of Thailand’s prime minister. In 2009, continued unrest has impacted the government of Thailand, and potential civil unrest may continue. To date, this has not had a long-term impact on our operations in Thailand. If there are future coups or some other type of political unrest, such activity may impact the ability to manufacture products in this region and may prevent shipments from entering or leaving the country. Any such disruptions could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We require air or ocean transport to deliver products built in our various manufacturing locations to our customers. High energy costs have increased our transportation costs which has had a negative impact on our production costs. Transportation costs would also escalate if there were a shortage of air or ocean cargo space and any significant increase in transportation costs would cause an increase in our expenses and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to obtain cargo space or secure delivery of components or products due to labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns or work stoppages by longshoremen, dock workers, airline pilots or other transportation industry workers, our delivery of products could be delayed. The initial sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy, often lasting from nine to eighteen months, which could cause delays in forecasted sales and cause us to incur substantial expenses before we record any associated revenues. Our customers normally conduct significant technical evaluations, trials and qualifications of our products before making purchase commitments. This qualification process involves a significant investment of time and resources from both our customers and us in order to ensure that our product designs are fully qualified to perform as required. The qualification and evaluation process, as well as customer field trials, may take longer than initially forecasted, thereby delaying the shipment of sales forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter and causing our operating results for the quarter to be less than originally forecasted. Such a sales shortfall would reduce our profitability and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business internationally, which exposes us to increased business risks. For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, international revenues (excluding North American sales) accounted for approximately 73%, 70% and 73% of our net sales, respectively. There are many risks that currently impact, and will continue to impact, our international business and multinational operations, including the following: • compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Europe, Asia and North and South America, including export requirements, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health and safety requirements; • potential labor strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns and work stoppages at U.S. and international ports; • differences in intellectual property protections throughout the world; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in Europe, Asia and South America, including relations with unionized labor pools in Europe and in Asia; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles in Europe, Asia and South America; • currency fluctuations and resulting losses on currency translations; • terrorist attacks on American companies; • economic instability, including inflation and interest rate fluctuations, such as those previously seen in South Korea and Brazil; • competition for foreign-based suppliers throughout the world; • overlapping or differing tax structures; • the complexity of global tax and transfer pricing rules and regulations and our potential inability to benefit/offset losses in one tax jurisdiction with income from another; • cultural and language differences between the United States and the rest of the world; and • political or civil turmoil. Any failure on our part to manage these risks effectively would seriously reduce our competitiveness in the wireless infrastructure marketplace. Protection of our intellectual property is limited. We rely upon trade secrets and patents to protect our intellectual property. We execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees and our suppliers, as well as limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have an ongoing program to identify and file applications for U.S. and other international patents. 19 Table of Contents The departure of any of our management and technical personnel, the breach of their confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations to us, or the failure to achieve our intellectual property objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have non-compete agreements with our employees who are generally employed on an at-will basis. Therefore, we have had, and may continue to have, employees leave us and go to work for competitors. If we are not successful in prohibiting the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or the use of our processes by a competitor, our competitive advantage may be significantly reduced which would result in reduced revenues. We are at risk of third-party claims of infringement that could harm our competitive position. We have received third-party claims of infringement in the past and have been able to resolve such claims without having a material impact on our business. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that we may face additional infringement claims. These claims, whether valid or not, could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources. A third-party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products, which would adversely affect our customer relationships and negatively impact our revenues. The communications industry is heavily regulated. We must obtain regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell our products, and our customers must obtain approvals to operate our products. Any failure or delay by us or any of our customers to obtain these approvals could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. Various governmental agencies have adopted regulations that impose stringent radio frequency emissions standards on the communications industry. Future regulations may require that we alter the manner in which radio signals are transmitted or otherwise alter the equipment transmitting such signals. The enactment by governments of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations could negatively impact the market for our products. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for such products, generally following extensive investigation and deliberation over competing technologies. The delays inherent in this type of governmental approval process have caused, and may continue to cause, the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers. These types of unanticipated delays would result in delayed or canceled customer orders. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations concerning the manufacturing and use of our products. We must stay in compliance with all such regulations and any future regulations. Any failure to comply with such regulations, and the unanticipated costs of complying with future regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture and sell products which contain electronic components, and as such components may contain materials that are subject to government regulation in both the locations that we manufacture and assemble our products, as well as the locations where we sell our products. An example of a regulated material is the use of lead in electronic components. We maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning the materials utilized in our products, for all the locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is a complex process which requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. There are areas where future regulations may be enacted which could increase our cost of the components that we utilize. While we do not currently know of any proposed regulation regarding components in our products, which would have a material impact on our business, if there is an unanticipated new regulation which significantly impacts our use of various components or requires more expensive components, that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing process is also subject to numerous governmental regulations, which cover both the use of various materials as well as environmental concerns. We maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning our production processes, for all locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is also a complex process which requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. There are areas where future regulations may be enacted which could increase our cost of manufacture. One area which has a large number of potential changes in regulations is the environmental area. Environmental areas such as pollution and climate change have had significant legislative and regulatory efforts on a global basis, and there are expected to be additional changes to the regulations in these areas. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products or utilize energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products. While future changes in regulations appears likely, we are currently unable to predict how any such changes will impact us and if such impacts will be material to our business. If there is a new law or regulation that significantly increases our costs of manufacturing or causes us to significantly alter the way that we manufacture our products, this would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The wireless communications infrastructure equipment industry is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product development, rapid product obsolescence, evolving industry standards and significant price erosion over the life of a product. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our products compete on the basis of the following characteristics: • performance; • functionality; • reliability; • pricing; • quality; • designs that can be efficiently manufactured in large volumes; • time-to-market delivery capabilities; and • compliance with industry standards. If we fail to address the above factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current competitors include ADC Telecommunications, Inc., CommScope, Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc., Japan Radio Co., Ltd., Kathrein-Werke KG, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and Radio Frequency Systems, in addition to a number of privately-held companies throughout the world, subsidiaries of certain multinational corporations and the internal manufacturing operations and design groups of the leading wireless infrastructure manufacturers such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Huawei, Motorola, Nokia Siemens and Samsung. Some competitors have adopted aggressive pricing strategies in an attempt to gain market share, which in turn, has caused us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive. Such pricing actions have had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and other resources than we 20 Table of Contents do and have achieved greater name recognition for their products and technologies than we have. If we are unable to successfully increase our market penetration or our overall share of the wireless communications infrastructure equipment market, our revenues will decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to enhance our existing products or to develop and introduce new products that meet changing customer requirements and evolving technological standards could have a negative impact on our ability to sell our products. To succeed, we must improve current products and develop and introduce new products that are competitive in terms of price, performance and quality. These products must adequately address the requirements of wireless infrastructure manufacturing customers and end-users. To develop new products, we invest in the research and development of wireless communications network products and coverage solutions. We target our research and development efforts on major wireless network deployments worldwide, which cover a broad range of frequency and transmission protocols. In addition, we are currently working on products for next generation networks, as well as development projects for products requested by our customers and improvements to our existing products. The deployment of a wireless network may be delayed which could result in the failure of a particular research or development effort to generate a revenue producing product. Additionally, the new products we develop may not achieve market acceptance or may not be able to be manufactured cost effectively in sufficient volumes. Our research and development efforts are generally funded internally and our customers do not normally pay for our research and development efforts. These costs are expensed as incurred. Therefore, if our efforts are not successful at creating or improving products that are purchased by our customers, there will be a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to high research and development expenses. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support critical business operations such as invoicing and processing sales orders, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to the ERP systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain these systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from foreign affiliates, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize net operating losses and other carry-forwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruptions by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and a large portion of our U.S.-based research and development operations are located in the State of California in regions known for seismic activity. In addition, we have production facilities and have outsourced some of our production to contract manufacturers in Asia, another region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake in either of these regions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents At times over the past year, our stock price has not met the minimum bid price for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our Common Stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or if we are unable to transfer our listing to another stock market. The bid price for our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was below $1.00 for a significant period of time during fiscal 2009. The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules provide that one of the continuing listing requirements for an issuer’s common stock is having a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Due to the current economic crisis, NASDAQ announced a moratorium on the enforcement of this minimum bid requirement. However, this moratorium was rescinded on July 31, 2009, and NASDAQ has not indicated an intention to reinstate the moratorium. We cannot control whether NASDAQ will reinstate the moratorium again in the future or whether NASDAQ will make any other concessions to allow issuers to avoid potential delisting. Accordingly, if the bid price of our Common Stock does not stay above $1.00 per share, we risk being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If our Common Stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our Common Stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by NASDAQ, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets. Each of these alternatives will likely result in it being more difficult for investors to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Common Stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that our Common Stock will be eligible for trading on any of such alternative exchanges or markets. In addition, delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital through the public or private sale of equity securities. Delisting from NASDAQ also would make trading our Common Stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price and inhibiting a stockholder’s ability to liquidate all or part of their investment in Powerwave. The price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our shareholders may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our Common Stock has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant volume and price fluctuations, which makes our Common Stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the three years ended January 3, 2010, the closing price of our Common Stock ranged from a high of $7.45 to a low of $0.23 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock may have been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock may also have been influenced by: • fluctuations in our results of operations or the operations of our competitors or customers; • the aggregate amount of our outstanding debt and perceptions about our ability to make debt service payments; • failure of our results of operations and sales revenues to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; • reductions in wireless infrastructure demand or expectations regarding future wireless infrastructure demand by our customers; • delays or postponement of wireless infrastructure deployments, including new 3G deployments; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our customers; • the timing and announcements of technological innovations, new products or financial results by us or our competitors; • lawsuits attempting to allege misconduct by the Company and its officers; • increases in the number of shares of our Common Stock outstanding; and • changes in the wireless industry. In addition, the potential conversion of our outstanding convertible debt instruments would add approximately 29.0 million shares of Common Stock to our outstanding shares. Such an increase may lead to sales of shares or the perception that sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our Common Stock. Any potential future sale or issuance of shares of our Common Stock or instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales or transactions could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. 22 Table of Contents Based on the above, we expect that our stock price will continue to be extremely volatile. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our investors will be able to resell our Common Stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other matters, a statement as to whether our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to audit management’s report. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, particularly because Section 404 and Auditing Standard No. 5 are newly effective, some of the judgment will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management’s assessment. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management may not be able to assert that such internal controls are effective. Although we currently anticipate satisfying the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there are limited precedents available by which to measure compliance with these new requirements. Therefore, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Negative conditions in the financial and credit markets may impact our liquidity. Recent dramatic changes in the global financial markets have weakened global economic conditions. These changes have had, and we anticipate they will continue to have, an impact on our liquidity. These impacts include some of our customers facing liquidity shortages which impacts their payments to us, and the general tightness in the financial credit markets which limits credit available to us as well as some of our customers. Given our current operating cash flow, financial assets, access to the capital markets and available lines of credit, we continue to believe that we will be able to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that global economic conditions will not worsen, which could have a corresponding negative effect on our liquidity. In addition, while we believe that we have invested our financial assets in sound financial institutions, should these institutions limit access to our assets, breach their agreements with us or fail, we may be adversely affected. Furthermore, volatile financial and credit markets may reduce our ability to raise capital or refinance our debt on favorable terms, if at all, which could materially impact our ability to meet our obligations. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our shareholder rights plan and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing shareholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which in turn, could harm our stock price and our shareholders. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 