ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, the Power Industry, and Our Business. We have a limited operating history and have only engaged in start-up and development activities. Although BPZ-Texas was formed in 2001, we are in the initial stages of developing our oil and natural gas reserves and have recently begun producing oil from our recent discoveries under an extended well test program. We are also subject to all of the risks inherent in attempting to expand a relatively new business venture. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the possible inability to profitably operate our existing properties or properties to be acquired in the future, our possible inability to fully fund the development requirements of such properties and our possible inability to acquire additional properties that will have a positive effect on our operations. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve a level of profitability that will provide a return on invested capital or that will result in an increase in the market value of our securities. The experience of our management team has primarily been in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and we have limited experience in the power generation business. We are initially relying on consultants and outside engineering and technical firms to provide the expertise to plan and execute the power generation aspects of our strategy and we have not yet hired all necessary full-time employees to manage this line of business. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that because of these factors and other general business risks noted throughout these “Risk Factors,” we may, in particular, not be able to profitably 11 execute our power generation strategy. We own rights to oil and gas properties that have not yet been developed. We own rights to oil and gas properties that have limited or no development. There are no guarantees that our properties will be developed profitably or that the potential oil and gas resources on the property will produce as expected if they are developed. We require additional financing for the exploration and development of our foreign oil and gas properties and the construction of our proposed power generation facility, pipeline and gas processing facility. Since the merger with Navidec, Inc. (“Navidec”) on September 10, 2004 (the “Merger”) we have funded our operations with the net proceeds of approximately $112 million in various private placements of our common stock and $15.5 million in convertible debt financing from the “International Finance Corporation (“IFC”). We have recently begun to generate revenues from operations. With these funds we have begun to implement our plans to develop our existing oil and gas properties, but we will need significant additional financing to fully implement our plan of operation. If we are unable to timely obtain adequate funds to finance our exploration and development, our ability to develop our oil and natural gas reserves may be limited or substantially delayed. Such limitations or delays could result in the potential loss of our oil and gas properties if we were unable to meet our obligations under the license agreements, which could, in turn, limit our ability to repay our debts. Inability to timely obtain funds also could cause us to delay, scale back or abandon our plans for construction of our power generation facility, pipelines, and gas processing facility. Future amounts required to fund our foreign activities may be obtained through additional equity and debt financing, joint venture arrangements, the sale of oil and gas interests, and/or future cash flows from operations. However, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. The exact nature and terms of such funding sources are unknown at this time, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain such funding or have adequate funding available to finance our future operations. Our future operating revenue is dependent upon the performance of our properties. Our future operating revenue depends upon our ability to profitably operate our existing properties by drilling and completing wells that produce commercial quantities of oil and gas and our ability to expand our operations through the successful implementation of our plans to explore and acquire additional properties. The successful development of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact. No assurance can be given that we can produce sufficient revenue to operate our existing properties or acquire additional oil and gas producing properties and leases. We may not discover or successfully produce any recoverable reserves in the future, or we may not be able to make a profit from the reserves that we may discover. In the event that we are unable to produce sufficient operating revenue to fund our future operations, we will be forced to seek additional, third-party funding, if such funding can be obtained. Such options would possibly include debt financing, sale of equity interests in the Company, joint venture arrangements, or the sale of oil and gas interests. If we are unable to secure such financing on a timely basis, we could be required to delay or scale back our operations. If such unavailability of funds continued for an extended period of time, this could result in the termination of our operations and the loss of an investor’s entire investment. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that may prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our exploration and production activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including weather, the drilling of dry holes, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well will not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. Our business involves a variety of operating risks, including: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs and surface cratering; · uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; · natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; · pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; · casing collapses; 12 · mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. Experiencing any of these operating risks could lead to problems with any well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, which could adversely affect any drilling operations we may commence. Affected drilling operations could further lead to substantial losses as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation and penalties; · suspension of our operations; · repairs to resume operations; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these risks occur, and our resulting losses are significant, we may have to curtail or suspend any drilling or production operations. We conduct offshore exploration, exploitation and production operations off the coast of northwest Peru, all of which are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment. Such risks include capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from adverse weather conditions or interference from commercial fishing activities. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities, tankers and barges, as well as interrupt operations. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. Disruption of services provided by our barges and tankers could temporarily impair our operations. We depend on our deck barge BPZ-01 to transport equipment to our offshore platforms and to act as a tender for our offshore drilling operations in Block Z-1. In addition, we have two barges under capital lease to use as a floating production, storage and offloading facility (“FPSO”) and a transport barge in our continuing development of oil production operations, and we have one Peruvian Navy tanker under short-term lease through our primary marine transportation contractor, to assist in the transport of oil from our offshore platforms. These vessels are an important element in our strategy to control drilling, storage and transportation costs by allowing the use of existing platforms and avoiding the use of high-priced ships or barges. Any disruption or delay of the services to be provided by our barges or tanker because of adverse weather conditions, accidents, mechanical failures, insufficient personnel or other events could temporarily impair our operations, delay implementation of our business plan, and increase our costs. For example, in January 2008 we lost the use of a Peruvian Navy tanker that our primary marine tranporation contractor had under short-term lease for our benefit when it sank after catching on fire. In addition, our insurance may not be adequate to cover any resulting losses. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of reserves shown in this report. In order to prepare the reserve estimates included in this report, our independent petroleum engineer must project production rates and timing of development expenditures as well as analyze available geological, geophysical, production 13 and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates, and those variances may be material. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum engineer may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves prepared in accordance with SEC guidelines referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil reserves. We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the date of estimate. Actual future prices, costs, taxes and the volume of produced reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate. Future oil and natural gas declines or unsuccessful exploration efforts may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our investments in oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, oil and gas lease acquisition costs and intangible drilling costs associated with exploration efforts that result in the discovery of proved reserves and costs associated with development drilling, whether or not successful, are capitalized when incurred. Certain costs of exploratory wells are capitalized pending determinations that proved reserves have been discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed future net revenues, we must write down the costs of each such field to our estimate of its fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or natural gas prices or unsuccessful exploration efforts could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs. We evaluate impairment of our proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. In addition, write-downs would occur if we were to experience sufficient downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or the present value of estimated future net revenues. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties cannot be reversed at a later date even if oil or natural gas prices increase. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 75% of our estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. There can be no assurance that all of these reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. We have prepared estimates of our natural gas and oil reserves and the costs associated with theses reserves in accordance with industry standards. However, the estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled, or the actual results may not be as estimated. We may not have or be able to obtain the capital we need to develop these proved reserves. Construction and operation of power generation and gas processing facilities and pipelines involve significant risks that cannot always be covered by insurance or contractual protections. The construction of power generation and gas processing facilities and pipelines involve many risks, including: · supply interruptions, · work stoppages, · labor disputes, · social unrest, · inability to negotiate acceptable construction, supply or other contracts, · inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals, 14 · weather interferences, · unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems, and · unanticipated cost overruns. The ongoing construction and future operation of these facilities involves all of the risks described above, in addition to risks relating to the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and performances below expected levels of output or efficiency. We intend to maintain commercially reasonable levels of insurance where such insurance is available and cost-effective, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels. However, the coverage or proceeds of any such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. Any of these risks could cause us to operate below expected capacity levels, which in turn could result in lost revenues, increased expense and higher maintenance costs. We may experience delays in delivering our oil to be sold. Our oil from the Corvina Field is delivered by barge to the refinery in Talara approximately 100 miles south of the platform where the oil is sold at current market prices. As a result of the location, we may experience delays or interruptions in delivering our oil due to severe weather, accidents or mechanical failures to our barges, or delays to dock in Talara. Any prolonged delay or interruption of delivery of our oil could adversely impact our business and our revenues. Our success depends in part on the existence and growth of markets for natural gas and electricity in Peru and Ecuador. Peru has a relatively well-developed and stable market for electricity, while the power market in Ecuador is not as well-developed or stable. Both countries rely on hydro-electric generating capacity for a significant portion of their power demand. Hydro plants are much less expensive to operate than plants that utilize natural gas, but they are subject to variable output based on rainfall and reservoir levels. The majority of the non-hydro, or thermal, power capacity in both countries consists of generating plants that utilize diesel or fuel oil, which are significantly more costly than natural gas at this time. Both countries have natural gas reserves and production, but neither has a well-developed natural gas infrastructure. Our immediate business plan relies on the continued stability of the power market in Peru (and Ecuador for the purpose of gas sales to third-party power producers in Ecuador), and our longer-term plans depend on the further development of the electricity market in Ecuador. We are subject to the risks that relatively more favorable business conditions for hydro plants or other competitive issues may adversely affect the demand and prices for the electricity that we expect to produce. We are also subject to the risks associated with potential disruptions or changes to regulations of the natural gas or power markets in these countries. Although we plan to enter into long-term contracts to sell a significant part of our future power production, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such contracts or that they will be on favorable terms. We will also be subject to the general commercial issues related to being in the power business, including the credit-worthiness of, and collections from future customers and the ability to profitably operate our future power plants. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting that region specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in northwest Peru and southwest Ecuador and adjacent waters means that some or all of our properties could be affected by the same event should that region, for example, experience: · severe weather (such as the effects of “El Niño,” which can cause excessive rainfall and flooding in Peru and Ecuador); · delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; · delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; or · changes in the political or regulatory environment. Because all our properties could experience the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other operators who have properties over a wider geographic area. Instability of International Operations. Presently, all of our oil and gas properties are located in South America, specifically Peru and Ecuador. The success and profitability of our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic, labor and social conditions, political instability, tax laws 15 (including host-country export, excise and income taxes and U.S. taxes on foreign operations) and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be conducted. This instability in laws, expenses of operations and fluctuations in exchange rates may make our assumptions about the economic viability of our oil and gas properties incorrect. If these assumptions are incorrect, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenue to cover our costs of operations. Our operations in Peru and Ecuador involve substantial costs and are subject to certain risks because the oil and gas industry in Peru and Ecuador is less developed than in the United States. As a result, our drilling and development operations in many instances will take longer to complete and may cost more than similar operations in the United States. The availability of technical expertise, specific equipment and supplies may be more limited in Peru and Ecuador than in the United States. Furthermore, once oil and natural gas production is recovered, there are fewer ways to transport it to market for sale. Pipeline and trucking operations are subject to uncertainty and lack of availability. Oil and natural gas pipelines and truck transport travel through miles of territory and are subject to the risk of diversion, destruction or delay. We expect that such factors will continue to subject our international operations to economic and operating risks that companies with domestic operations do not experience. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the unavailability or high cost of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel were particularly severe in Peru and Ecuador, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. We are subject to numerous foreign laws and regulations of the oil and natural gas industry that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive foreign laws and regulations relating to the exploration for and the development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas as well as electrical power generation. Future laws or regulations, as well as any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there is indication that the current administration in Ecuador is likely to increase state intervention in the economy via new legislation and tightening control of areas such as energy, which could have a significant impact on our ability to operate in that country. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: · work program guarantees and other financial responsibility requirements; · taxation; · royalty requirements; · customer requirements; · operational reporting; and · safety requirements. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: · personal injuries; and · property and natural resource damages; and · governmental infringements and sanctions. If we fail to comply with the terms of certain contracts related to our foreign operations, we could lose our rights under each of those contracts. The terms of each of our contracts with the government of Peru, including our Peruvian license contracts and technical evaluation agreements, require that we perform certain activities, such as seismic interpretations and the drilling of required wells in accordance with those contracts and agreements. Our failure to timely perform those activities as required could result in the loss of our rights under a particular contract or the loss of the amounts we have posted as a guaranty for the performance of such activities, which would likely result in a significant loss to us. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and our failure to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Since all of our oil and gas properties are in Peru and Ecuador, there is a risk of potential FCPA violations. We have a FCPA policy and a limited compliance program designed to ensure that the Company, its employees and agents comply with the FCPA. We believe our policy and compliance program are adequate given the small size of our company. However, there is no assurance that such policy or program will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. Any violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. 16 We are subject to complex environmental regulatory and permitting laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of our planned operations. The exploration for, and the development, production and sale of, oil and gas in South America are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. For example, we are required to obtain an environmental permit or approval from the government in Peru prior to conducting seismic operations, drilling a well or constructing a pipeline in Peruvian territory, including the waters offshore Peru, where we intend to conduct future oil and gas operations. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations promulgated in Peru impose substantial restrictions on the use of natural resources, interference with the natural environment, location of facilities, handling and storage of hydrocarbons, use of radioactive material, disposal of waste, emission of noise and other activities. The laws create additional monitoring and reporting obligations in the event of any spillage or unregulated discharge of hydrocarbons. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our planned drilling operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Our current permits and authorizations and our ability to get future permits and authorizations may, over time, be susceptible to increased scrutiny, resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. In particular, we may experience delays in obtaining permits and authorizations in Peru and Ecuador necessary for our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs of operations, as well as further restrict our foreign operations. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. These laws and regulations have changed in the past and have generally imposed more stringent requirements that increase operating costs or require capital expenditures in order to remain in compliance. It is also possible that unanticipated developments could cause us to make environmental expenditures that are significantly higher than those we currently anticipate, thereby increasing our overall costs. Failure to comply with new regulations could cause us to suspend or terminate certain operations or subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to implement our plan of operation. Compliance with, or breach of, laws relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment can be costly and could limit our operations. As an owner or lessee and operator of oil and gas properties in Peru and Ecuador, we are subject to various national, state and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability on the owner or lessee under an oil and gas lease for the cost of property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up resulting from operations, subject the owner or lessee to liability for pollution damages and other environmental damages, and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. We have established practices for continued compliance with environmental laws and regulations and we believe the costs incurred by these policies and procedures so far have been necessary business costs in the oil and gas industry. However, there is no assurance that changes in or additions to laws or regulations regarding the protection of the environment will not increase such compliance costs, or have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Our oil and gas operations involve substantial costs and are subject to various economic risks. Our oil and gas operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development and production activities, including the necessity of significant expenditures to locate and acquire producing properties and to drill exploratory wells. The cost and length of time necessary to produce any reserves may be such that it will not be economically viable. In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, development and production activities to be unsuccessful. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. We also face the risk that the oil and/or gas reserves may be less than anticipated, that we will not have sufficient funds to successfully drill on the property, that we will not be able to market the oil and/or gas due to a lack of a market and that fluctuations in the prices of oil and/or gas will make development of those leases uneconomical. This could result in a total loss of our investment. Competition for oil and natural gas properties and prospects is intense; some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel and equipment. In addition, changes in Peruvian government regulation have enabled multinational and regional companies to enter the Peruvian energy market. We actively compete with other companies in our industry when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. Competition in our business activities has increased and will increase further, as existing and new participants expand their activities as a result of these regulatory changes. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we have. For example, if several companies are interested in an area, Perupetro may 17 choose to call for bids, either through international competitive biddings or through private bidding processes by invitation, and award the contract to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Our competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. On the acquisition opportunities made available to us, we compete with other companies in our industry for properties operated by third parties through a private bidding process, direct negotiations or some combination thereof. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors we cannot control or influence. The loss of senior management or key technical personnel could adversely affect us. We have engaged certain members of management who have substantial and unique expertise in the type of endeavors we presently conduct and the geographical areas in which we conduct them. We do not maintain any life insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. To the extent their services become unavailable, we will be required to retain other qualified personnel. There can be no assurance we will be able to recruit and hire qualified persons upon acceptable terms. Similarly, the oil and gas exploration industry requires the use of personnel with substantial technical expertise. In the event that the services of our current technical personnel become unavailable, we will need to hire qualified personnel to take their place. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recruit and hire such persons on acceptable terms. Insurance does not cover all risks. Exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas can be hazardous, involving unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, cratering, fires and loss of well control, which can result in damage to or destruction of wells or production facilities, formations, injury to persons, loss of life, or damage to property or the environment. As a result, we presently maintain insurance coverage in amounts consistent with our business activities and to the extent required by our license contracts. Such coverage includes certain physical damage to the Company’s and third parties’ property, hull and machinery, protection and indemnity, employer’s liability, comprehensive third party general liability, workers compensation and certain pollution and environmental risks. However, we are not fully insured against all risks in all aspects of our business, such as political risk, civil unrest, war, business interruption, environmental damage and reservoir loss or damage. Further, no such insurance coverage can insure for all operational or environmental risks. The occurrence of an event that is not insured or not fully insured could result in losses to us. For example, uninsured or under insured environmental damages, property damages or damages related to personal injuries could divert capital needed to implement our plan of operation. If any such uninsured losses are significant, we may have to curtail or suspend our drilling operations until such time as replacement capital is obtained, if ever, and this could have a material impact on our financial position. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations as well as our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments to implement our business plan. Any revenues, cash flow, profitability and future rate of growth we achieve will be greatly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and gas. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also expected to be dependent on oil and gas prices. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and gas are subject to potentially wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. Those factors include: · international political conditions (including wars and civil unrest); · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and other actions; 18 · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · overall economic conditions. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, if any. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and borrowing capacity, and may require a reduction in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. While our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and gas prices increase significantly, exploration and production costs and acquisition costs for additional properties and reserves may also increase. We may not be able to replace our reserves. Our future success will depend upon our ability to find, acquire and develop oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Any reserves we develop will decline as they are produced unless we are able to conduct successful revitalization activities, or are able to acquire properties containing proven reserves, or both. To develop reserves and achieve production, we must implement our development and production programs, identify and produce previously overlooked or by-passed zones and shut-in wells, acquire additional properties or undertake other replacement activities. We can give no assurance that our planned development, revitalization, and acquisition activities will result in significant reserves replacement or that we will have success in discovering and producing reserves at economical exploration and development costs. We may not be able to locate geologically satisfactory property, particularly since we will be competing for such property with other oil and gas companies, most of which have much greater financial resources than we do. Moreover, even if desirable properties are available to us, we may not have sufficient funds with which to acquire or develop them. Investor profits, if any, may be limited for the near future. In the past, we have never paid a dividend. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Accordingly, investors in our common stock may not derive any profits from their investment in us for the foreseeable future, other than through any price appreciation of our common stock that may occur. Further, any appreciation in the price of our common stock may be limited or nonexistent as long as we continue to have operating losses. We have not been profitable and have accumulated deficits during our exploratory stage of operations totaling $58.3 million through December 31, 2007. To date we have had limited revenue and no earnings from operations. There can be no assurances that sufficient revenue to cover total expenses can be achieved until we fully implement our operational plan. Additional infusions of capital may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. To finance our operations we may sell additional shares of our stock. We currently have $266 million in common stock available under an effective shelf registration statement, which we may sell from time to time in one or more offerings pursuant to underwritten public offerings, negotiated transactions, block trades or a combination of these methods. Any additional equity financing that we receive may involve substantial dilution to our then-existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may issue stock to acquire properties, assets, or businesses. In the event that any such shares are issued, the proportionate ownership and voting power of other shareholders will be reduced. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by our Board of Directors. If we issue shares of preferred stock, such preferred stock may have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale by our current shareholders may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had 73,914,471 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In addition, we have outstanding 5,917,267 shares of other potentially dilutive securities, which mainly consist of Long-Term Incentive Shares. We also have an additional 3,152,450 common shares available under our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and Directors Compensation Incentive Plan. In addition, we have $15.5 million of convertible debt outstanding under the “C” loan agreement with the IFC, which can be converted to approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the agreement. The possibility that substantial amounts of shares of our common stock may be sold in the public market may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decrease and thus could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. We are controlled by our officers, directors and entities affiliated with them. In the aggregate, our management and directors own or control approximately 19.8% of our common stock issued as of December 31, 2007. These shareholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The transfer of Navidec Financial Services, Inc. (“NFS”) could result in liability to us because the shares 19 transferred were not registered with the SEC. On September 9, 2004, the day prior to the effective date of the Merger, Navidec assigned all of its pre-merger business operations, assets and liabilities to NFS, and all issued and outstanding shares of NFS were subsequently transferred to the Navidec pre-merger shareholders of record as of September 9, 2004 for no cash consideration. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the transfer and any necessary qualifications or registrations of the NFS shares under applicable securities laws was agreed to be handled by NFS, and we believed, based on information provided by NFS and its advisors, that NFS had undertaken the necessary actions to comply with applicable registration requirements. On July 13, 2006, NFS filed a Registration Statement on Form 10-SB with the SEC and an amendment thereto on October 27, 2006. It is our understanding that the Registration Statement has become effective under applicable SEC rules. However, because a registration of the NFS shares was not effective at the time of the transfer of the NFS shares, it might be determined that the distribution of the NFS shares was made without full compliance with applicable registration or qualification requirements under applicable securities laws. As a result, although we took no actions in connection with the transfer, we might incur liability, as a successor to Navidec, by merger, with respect to any damages resulting from such failure to register. If, despite the fact that we did not control the transfer of the NFS shares, regulatory authorities determine that we did not comply with applicable registration requirements with respect to the transfer, fines or other sanctions might be imposed on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 