ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors could affect our financial condition and results of operations and should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 28 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 59. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. For example, there was a decrease in our URS Division revenues of $77.9 million, or 3.4%, in fiscal year 2002 compared to fiscal year 2001 as a result of the general economic decline. Our clients may demand better pricing terms and their ability to pay our invoices may be affected by the economy. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and overall financial condition may deteriorate. Unexpected termination of a substantial portion of our book of business could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. We account for all contract awards that may be recognized as revenues as our “book of business,” which includes backlog, designations, option years and IDCs. Our backlog consists of the amount billable at a particular point in time, including task orders issued under indefinite delivery contracts. As of December 30, 2005, our backlog was approximately $3.8 billion. Our designations consist of projects that clients have awarded us, but for which we do not yet have signed contracts. Our option year contracts are multi-year contracts with base periods, plus option years that are exercisable by our clients without the need for us to go through another competitive bidding process. Our IDCs are signed contracts under which we perform work only when our clients issue specific task orders. Our book of business estimates may not result in actual revenues in any particular period since clients may terminate or delay projects, or decide not to award task orders under IDCs. Unexpected termination of a substantial portion of our book of business could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws, regulations and government audits; a violation of any such laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. We must comply with and are affected by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with the FAR, TINA, the CAS, the SCA, and DOD security regulations, as well as many other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our clients and in some instances, impose additional costs to our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud and misconduct, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor’s performance under its contracts and cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. In addition, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question incurred costs, if the DCAA believes we have accounted for such costs in a manner 14 Table of Contents inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, and recommend that our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer disallow such costs. Historically, we have not experienced significant disallowed costs as a result of such audits. However, we can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowances for incurred costs in the future. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Because we depend on federal, state and local governments for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Revenues from federal government contracts represented approximately 48% and state and local government contracts represented approximately 23%, respectively, of our total revenues for the year ended December 30, 2005. Our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Government contracts are typically awarded through a heavily regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, in turn may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts will be negatively impacted. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Finally, government clients can generally terminate or modify their contracts with us at their convenience. Each year a portion of our multiple-year government contracts may be subject to legislative appropriations. If legislative appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year government contract, then we may not realize all of our potential revenues and profits from that contract. Each year a portion of our multiple-year government contracts may be subject to legislative appropriations. For example, the passage of the SAFETEA-LU highway and transit bill in August of 2005 has provided matching funds for state transportation projects. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may only be partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we may not realize all of our potential revenues and profits from that contract. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. It is important for us to control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: cost-plus, fixed-price and time-and-materials. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all our costs. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. 15 Table of Contents Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: • the application of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders, and contract claims; • provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; • value of goodwill and recovarability of other intangible assets; • valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; • valuation of defined benefit pension plans and other employee benefit plans; and • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, which is discussed further in Note 1, “Accounting Policies” to our “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included under Item 8 of this report. Our use of this method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program and construction management or construction contracts in process, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. If we fail to timely complete, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or subsequently fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on that project, which may affect our overall profitability. 16 Table of Contents If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We sometimes enter into subcontracts, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends upon, among other things, the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations of our partners. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform its contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete the project. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. Our future revenues depend on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and renew existing contracts and, therefore, our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenues and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. We may be subject to substantial liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our environmental business involves the planning, design, program and construction management and operation and maintenance of pollution control facilities, hazardous waste or Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we contract with U.S. governmental entities to destroy hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons stockpiles. These activities may require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. We must comply with a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under the “CERCLA”, and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the RCRA, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. In addition, the risk of “toxic tort” litigation has increased in recent years as people injured by hazardous substances seek recovery for personal injuries and/or property damages. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability; however, we are currently not subject to any material claims under environmental laws and regulations. Changes in environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. Our environmental services business is driven by federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenues. 17 Table of Contents Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may adversely affect us and result in a significant loss. Various legal proceedings are pending against us in connection with the performance of our professional services and other actions by us, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty. For example, in performing our services we may be exposed to cost overruns, personal injury claims, property damage, labor shortages or disputes, weather problems and unforeseen engineering, architectural, environmental and geological problems. In some actions, parties may seek damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Currently, we have limits of $125.0 million per loss and $125.0 million in the aggregate annually for general liability, professional errors and omissions liability and contractor’s pollution liability insurance (in addition to other policies for some specific projects). These policies include self-insured claim retention amounts of $4.0 million, $7.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively. Our services may require us to make judgments and recommendations about environmental, structural, geotechnical and other physical conditions at project sites. If our performance, judgments and recommendations are later found to be incomplete or incorrect, then we may be liable for the resulting damages. Although the outcome of our legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and no assurance can be provided as to a favorable outcome, based on our previous experience in these matters, we do not believe that any of our legal proceedings, individually or collectively, are likely to exceed established loss accruals or our various professional errors and omissions, project-specific and other insurance policies. However, the resolution of outstanding claims is subject to inherent uncertainty and it is reasonably possible that any resolution could have an adverse effect on us. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. A general decline in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Revenues under contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and other defense-related clients represented approximately 36% of our total revenues for the year ended December 30, 2005. While spending authorization for defense-related programs has increased significantly in recent years due to greater homeland security and foreign military commitments, as well as the trend to outsource federal government jobs to the private sector, these spending levels may not be sustainable. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Our overall market share will decline if we are unable to compete successfully in our industry. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. According to the publication Engineering News-Record, based on information voluntarily reported by various companies, the top twenty engineering design firms only accounted for approximately 45% of the total design firm revenues in 2004. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar public companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share will decline. These competitive forces could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing our relative share in the markets we serve. Our failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and otherwise conduct our business effectively. As a professional and technical services company, we are labor intensive and therefore our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In addition, we rely heavily upon 18 Table of Contents the expertise and leadership of our senior management. The failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. Recent changes in accounting for equity-related compensation will impact our financial statements and could impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”). SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). We adopted SFAS 123(R) on December 31, 2005, which was the first day of our 2006 fiscal year and are in the process of evaluating the full impact of SFAS 123(R). We anticipate that the adoption will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. During fiscal year 2005 and prior periods, we elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”) in accounting for our stock-based compensation plans. In light of the impact of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we evaluated our current stock-based compensation plans and employee stock purchase plans. In order to minimize the volatility of our stock-based compensation expense, we are currently issuing restricted stock awards and units rather than granting stock options to selected employees. We also revised our employee stock purchase plan from a 15% discount on our stock price at the beginning or the end of the six-month offering period, whichever is lower, to a 5% discount on our stock price at the end of the six-month offering period. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to finance future operations or engage in other business activities. As of December 30, 2005, we had $318.6 million of total outstanding indebtedness and $68.9 million in letters of credit outstanding against our revolving line of credit. This level of indebtedness could negatively affect us because it may impair our ability to borrow in the future and make us more vulnerable in an economic downturn. In addition, our current credit facility contains financial ratios and other covenants, which may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; and • enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates. Although we are in compliance with all current credit facility covenants, our indebtedness could limit our ability to finance future operations or engage in other business activities. Because we are a holding company, we may not be able to service our debt if our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than investments in the stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our business operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal restrictions, including local regulations and contractual obligations associated with secured loans, such as equipment financings, may restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make loans or other distributions to us. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt at maturity. As of December 30, 2005, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases), during the next twelve months will be approximately $26 million. Based on the current outstanding indebtedness of $270.0 million under our new credit facility (“New Credit Facility”), if market rates were to average 1% higher during that same twelve-month period, our net of tax interest expense would increase by approximately $1.6 million. 19 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. As a multinational company, we have operations in over 20 countries and we derived approximately 10% and 9% of our revenues from international operations for the years ended December 30, 2005 and October 31, 2004, respectively. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: • lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • currency fluctuations; • logistical and communication challenges; • potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws; • changes in labor conditions; • exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control and anti-boycott laws; and • general economic and political conditions in foreign markets. These and other risks associated with international operations could harm our overall operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. In addition, services billed through foreign subsidiaries are attributed to the international category of our business, regardless of where the services are performed and conversely, services billed through domestic operating subsidiaries are attributed to a domestic category of clients, regardless of where the services are performed. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenues attributed to our international operations. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. As a multinational company, our employees often travel to and work in high security risk countries around the world that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we have employees working in high security risk countries located in the Middle East and Southwest Asia. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We depend on third party support for our Enterprise Resource Program (“ERP”) system and, as a result, we may incur unexpected costs that could harm our results of operations, including the possibility of abandoning our current ERP system and migrating to another ERP system. We use accounting and project management information systems supported by Oracle Corporation. As of December 30, 2005, approximately 62% of our total revenues were processed on this ERP system. We depend on the vendor to provide long-term software maintenance support for our ERP system. Oracle Corporation may discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our ERP system. In the event we are unable to obtain necessary long-term third party software maintenance support, we may be required to incur unexpected costs that could harm our results of operations, including the possibility of abandoning our current ERP system and migrating all of our accounting and project management information systems to another ERP system. 20 Table of Contents Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions have negatively impacted and could further negatively impact the economies in which we operate, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina that affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005 and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate. For example, Hurricane Katrina caused several of our Gulf Coast offices to close, interrupted a number of active client projects and forced the relocation of our employees in that region from their homes. In addition, during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, several offices were shut down due to terrorist attack warnings. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause relieving us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Because we have grown through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other net purchased intangible assets were $986.6 million as of December 30, 2005. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and other net intangible assets, the values of which are material. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we would be required to write-off the impaired amount, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of December 30, 2005, approximately 8% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefits expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address the threat of union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature of the threat or the type and duration of any work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 