Risk Factors." Government Regulation and Supervision The securities industry and National's business is subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. The principal purpose of these regulations is the protection of customers and the securities markets. The SEC is the federal agency charged with the administration of the federal securities laws. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations that adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, which govern their members and conduct periodic examinations of member firms' operations. Securities firms are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in the states in which they are registered. National is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and a member of the NASD. It is licensed to conduct activities as a broker-dealer in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. -8- In addition, as a registered broker-dealer and member of the NASD, National is subject to the SEC's net capital rule, which is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Net capital is defined as the net worth of a broker-dealer subject to certain adjustments. In computing net capital, various adjustments are made to net worth that exclude assets not readily convertible into cash. Additionally, the regulations require that certain assets, such as a broker-dealer's position in securities, be valued in a conservative manner so as to avoid over-inflation of the broker-dealer's net capital. National, as a registered broker-dealer, is subject to the SEC's Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1 that requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. National has elected to use the alternative standard method permitted by the rule. This requires that National maintain minimum net capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or a specified amount per security based on the bid price of each security for which National is a market maker. At September 30, 2005, National's net capital exceeded the requirement by $974,000. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the NASD Conduct Rules require National to supervise the activities of its investment executives. As part of providing such supervision, National maintains Written Supervisory Procedures and a Compliance Manual. Compliance personnel and outside auditors conduct inspections of branch offices periodically to review compliance with the Company's procedures. A registered principal provides onsite supervision at each of the Company's larger offices. The other offices (averaging two investment executives per office) are not required by NASD rules to have a registered principal on site and are therefore supervised by registered principals of National. Designated principals review customer trades to ensure compliance with the NASD Conduct Rules including mark-up guidelines. In July 2003, without admitting or denying the alleged violations, National accepted and consented to the entry of the following findings by NASD Regulation: at various times in 2001, the firm violated SEC Rule 11Ac1-4. The firm was censured and fined $7,500 in a settlement dated July 24, 2003. In September 2003, without admitting or denying the alleged violations, National accepted and consented to the entry of the following findings by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation: at various times in 2001 and 2002, the firm violated certain record keeping rules. The firm agreed to update its Written Supervisory Procedures, and the firm was fined $15,000 in a final administrative order dated September 5, 2003. In January 2004, National entered into a consent order with the State of Missouri for alleged failure to supervise one representative by allowing him to maintain incomplete or blank securities related business forms signed by clients or potential clients in violation of record keeping requirements under 409.4-411(c)(1) of the 2003 Act. The firm agreed to provide its Missouri registered agents with notice to cease this activity immediately and destroy all such forms; the firm was fined $13,000. The NASD was engaged in an industry-wide investigation of mutual fund trading activities. National is one of the numerous broker-dealers contacted by the NASD with respect to this investigation. The NASD identified certain customer mutual fund transactions ordered through National during the time period from October 2000 to February 2003 that it believed constituted mutual fund timing and/or excessive trading activity. National engaged in discussions and negotiations with the NASD to informally resolve these matters. In August 2004, such resolution resulted in a settlement, whereby National, without admitting or denying any violations, agreed to make both restitution and pay a fine to the NASD, that in the aggregate approximate $600,000. Additionally, the Company is obligated to pay the fines imposed by the NASD on two executive officers totaling $50,000 pursuant to its indemnification obligations. -9- In December 2004, without admitting or denying the alleged violations, National accepted and consented to the entry of the following findings by NASD Regulation: at various times in 2002 and 2003, the firm violated SEC Rule 11ac1-5. The firm was censured and fined $32,500 in a settlement dated December 31, 2004. In February 2005, without admitting or denying the alleged violations, National accepted and consented to the entry of the following findings by NASD Regulation: (i) at various times in the 12 month period ending February 2004, the firm violated NASD Rule 1017(a)(5) and NASD Conduct Rules 3010(a) and 2110; (ii) at various times in 2001 the firm violated NASD Conduct Rules 3370(b)(4)(B) and 2110; and (iii) at various times from September 2001 to November 2003 the firm violated the net capital requirements of SEC Rule 15c3-1 and NASD Conduct Rule 2110. The firm was fined $55,000 in a settlement dated March 31, 2005. Additionally, the firm and a former executive officer were censured and fined $30,000, jointly and severally, that the Company is obligated to pay pursuant to its indemnification obligations. In February 2005, National advised the State of Missouri that a subsidiary had exceeded the de minimum exemptions for investment advisory accounts without the required State Registration. In April 2005, the firm paid a fine of $2,500, and the subsidiary received approval for registration in Missouri. Venture Capital In March 2001, the Company had its initial closing of Robotic Ventures Fund I, L.P. (the "Fund"), a venture capital fund dedicated to investing in companies engaged in the business of robotics and artificial intelligence. The Fund raised a total of $5.2 million, $265,000 of which was capital directly invested by the Company into the Fund, representing a 5.1% limited partnership interest in the Fund. The Company serves as the managing member of Robotic Ventures Group LLC, the general partner of the Fund (the "Fund General Partner"). As the managing member of the Fund General Partner, the Company is entitled to a 2% management fee paid by the Fund. Additionally, the Company invested $1,000, and owns 24.5% of the limited liability company membership interests in the Fund General Partner, which is entitled to 20% of the profits generated by the Fund after investors in the Fund receive the return of their invested capital, representing a 4.9% indirect interest in the profits of the Fund. The Company keeps the books and records of the Fund and oversees the Fund's investments. From time to time, employees of National will work with and advise the Fund's investee companies on its business plan, capital structure and future goals. The Company has not been compensated or engaged to provide any management or advisory services to the investee companies. In February 2002, due to a dramatic slowdown in the technology venture markets, the Fund returned a majority of the uninvested capital to the investors, representing approximately 50% of the funds raised, and no further management fees are to be paid. The carrying amount of the Company's investment in the Fund was $107,000 at September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004. The Company's investment in the Fund is accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting. The Company recognized a loss on this investment of $0, $0 and $29,000 during fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During the formation of the Fund, the Company incurred various start-up expenses that were subsequently reimbursed by the Fund. RISK FACTORS The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussion describe and analyze the Company's financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. The Company's prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of the Company's future performance or financial condition. The Company, therefore, has included the following discussion of certain factors that could affect the Company's future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause the Company's future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management's -10- expectations or estimates of the Company's future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing the Company's future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to the Company's stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Operating results have resulted in reporting losses. Although the Company was profitable in fiscal year 2004, it realized a loss of $1,183,000 in fiscal year 2005, and it has reported losses of approximately $843,000, $3.4 million and $7.9 million in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. There is no assurance that the Company will be profitable in the future. The Company's losses were primarily attributable to the market slowdowns and reduced trading activity and volatility, and the cessation of its market making activities. The Company anticipates that when market conditions improve and revenues increase it may again be profitable; however, there can be no assurances as to the timing of when these market conditions will change. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may need to curtail, suspend or terminate certain operations. The Company may require additional financing. In order for the Company to have the opportunity for future success and profitability, it periodically may need to obtain additional financing, either through borrowings, public offerings, private offerings, or some type of business combination (e.g., merger, buyout, etc.). The Company has actively pursued a variety of funding sources, and has consummated certain transactions in order to address the capital requirements of the Company. The Company may need to seek to raise additional capital through other available sources, including borrowing additional funds from third parties and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in such pursuits. Additionally, the issuance of new securities to raise capital will cause the dilution of shares held by current stockholders. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate adequate cash from operations, and if we are unable to find sources of funding, it would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. If the Company is unable to pay its outstanding debt obligations when due, the Company's operations may be materially adversely affected. At September 30, 2005, we had total indebtedness of $2,819,000, of which $1,000,000 matures during fiscal year 2006. The Company cannot assure you that our operations will generate funds sufficient to repay our existing debt obligations as they come due. The Company's failure to repay its indebtedness and make interest payments as required by our debt obligations, could have a material adverse affect on the Company's operations. Because the Common Stock may be subject to "penny stock" rules, the market for the Common Stock may be limited. If the Common Stock becomes subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission's (the "SEC") penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in the Company's securities may be adversely affected. If at any time the Common Stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, and the Company does not have net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000 or average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years, transactions in the Common Stock may be subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors: o must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; o receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; -11- o provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and which describe the market for these "penny stocks" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and o obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. If the Common Stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in the Company's securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of the Company's securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell the Company's securities. National is subject to various risk associated with the securities industry. As a securities broker-dealer, National is subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: o the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets; o extensive governmental regulation; o litigation; o intense competition; o substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and o dependence on the solvency of various third parties. As a result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In periods of low volume, profitability is impaired because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. In the event of a market downturn, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject us to sanctions imposed by the SEC or the NASD. National is subject to the SEC's net capital rule which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. We compute net capital under the alternate method permitted by the net capital rule. National is required to maintain net capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or a specified amount per security based on the bid price of each security for which National is a market maker. The net capital rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Compliance with the net capital rule limits those operations of broker-dealers that require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The rule also limits the ability of securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness, such as subordinated debt, as it matures. The NASD may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm's net capital. If the calculation reveals a deficiency in net capital, the NASD may immediately restrict or suspend certain or all of the activities of a broker-dealer. National may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or its net capital may fall below requirements established by the SEC, and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. The Company is exposed to risks due to its investment banking activities. Participation in an underwriting syndicate or a selling group involves both economic and regulatory risks. An underwriter may incur losses if it is unable to resell the securities it is committed to purchase, or if it is forced to liquidate its commitment at less than the purchase price. In addition, under federal securities laws, other laws and court decisions with respect to -12- underwriters' liabilities and limitations on the indemnification of underwriters by issuers, an underwriter is subject to substantial potential liability for misstatements or omissions of material facts in prospectuses and other communications with respect to such offerings. Acting as a managing underwriter increases these risks. Underwriting commitments constitute a charge against net capital and our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the net capital rule. The Company's business could be adversely affected by a breakdown in the financial markets. As a securities broker-dealer, National's business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Many factors or events could lead to a breakdown in the financial markets including war, terrorism, natural catastrophes and other types of disasters. These types of events could cause people to begin to lose confidence in the financial markets and their ability to function effectively. If the financial markets are unable to effectively prepare for these types of events and ease public concern over their ability to function, the Company's revenues are likely to decline and adversely affect its operations. Market fluctuations may reduce the Company's revenues and profitability. The Company's revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity. Additionally, the Company's profitability may be adversely affected by losses from the trading or underwriting of securities or failure of third parties to meet commitments. National acts as a market maker in publicly traded common stocks. In market making transactions, the Company undertakes the risk of price changes or being unable to resell the common stock it holds or being unable to purchase the common stock it has sold. These risks are heightened by the illiquidity of many of the common stocks the Company trades and/or makes a market. Any losses from the Company trading activities, including as a result of unauthorized trading by the Company's employees, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions, as well as losses from declines in the market value of common stocks held for trading purposes. During periods of declining volume and revenue, the Company's profitability would be adversely affected. Declines in market values of common stocks and the failure of issuers and third parties to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets. Competition with other financial firms may have a negative effect on the Company's business. The Company competes directly with national and regional full-service broker-dealers and a broad range of other financial service firms, including banks and insurance companies. Competition has increased as smaller securities firms have either ceased doing business or have been acquired by or merged into other firms. Mergers and acquisitions have increased competition from these firms, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. Many of these firms offer their customers more products and research than currently offered by the Company. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. The Company also faces competition from companies offering discount and/or electronic brokerage services, including brokerage services provided over the Internet, which the Company is currently not offering and does not intend to offer in the foreseeable future. These competitors may have lower costs or provide more services, and may offer their customers more favorable commissions, fees or other terms than those offered by the Company. To the extent that issuers and purchasers of securities transact business without the assistance of the Company, the Company's operating results could be adversely affected. -13- The Common Stock has been delisted from The American Stock Exchange and accordingly its liquidity and price may be adversely affected. The Common Stock was previously listed on The American Stock Exchange (the "AMEX"). In February 2003, the Company received notification from the AMEX indicating that it was not in compliance with the listing standard relating to shareholders' equity of less than $2.0 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two out of our three most recent fiscal years. The Company submitted a plan to the AMEX indicating compliance within a maximum of 18 months. In May 2003, the AMEX notified the Company that it had accepted its plan of compliance and granted the Company an extension of time to August 5, 2004 to satisfy the financial standards requirement. The Company, however, was unable to comply with the listing standard. Consequently, on November 1, 2004 the Common Stock was removed from the AMEX and commenced trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB"). The OTCBB is generally considered to be a less efficient market, and the Company's stock price, as well as the liquidity of its Common Stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. There are risks associated with our stock trading on the OTCBB rather than on a national exchange. There may be significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the OTCBB rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: o limited release of the market price of our securities; o limited news coverage; o limited interest by investors in our securities; o volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume; o increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to "blue sky" restrictions; and o limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. The Company is currently subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject the Company to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and the Company's business are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. The Company is also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including the NASD and the MSRB. National is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and member firms of the NASD. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and supervision, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record keeping, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The regulatory environment is also subject to change. Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to the Company involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. These regulations often serve to limit the Company's activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. If the Company is found to have violated an applicable regulation, administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against the Company that may result in a censure, fine, civil penalties, issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the deregistration or suspension of the Company's broker-dealer activities, the suspension or disqualification of the Company's officers or employees, or other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition. -14- The Company relies on clearing brokers and unilateral termination of the agreements with these clearing brokers could disrupt the Company's business. In fiscal year 2002, the Company changed from a self-clearing brokerage firm to an introducing brokerage firm, using third party clearing brokers to process its securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. The clearing brokers also provide billing services, extend credit and provide for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. The Company's broker-dealer depends on the operational capacity and ability of the clearing brokers for the orderly processing of transactions. In addition, by engaging the processing services of a clearing firm, the Company is exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If the clearing agreements are unilaterally terminated for any reason, the Company would be forced to find alternative clearing firms without adequate time to negotiate the terms of a new clearing agreement and without adequate time to plan for such change. There can be no assurance that if there were a unilateral termination of its clearing agreement that the Company would be able to find an alternative clearing firm on acceptable terms to them or at all. In December 2003, National and its clearing firm, First Clearing, mutually agreed to terminate their clearing relationship by June 30, 2004. On June 22, 2004, National entered into an agreement with Fiserv to act as clearing agent for its brokerage business. The conversion from First Clearing to Fiserv was substantially completed in the first week of October 2004. In March 2005, NFS acquired the clearing business of Fiserv. In April 2005, National entered into a clearing agreement with NFS that became effective in June 2005. Additionally, in June 2005, National entered into a clearing agreement with Penson for the purpose of providing clearing services that are not provided by NFS. The Company permits its clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the clearing firm extends credit to the client secured by cash and securities in the client's account. During periods of volatile markets, the value of the collateral held by the clearing brokers could fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing brokers sell or buy securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. The Company's has agreed to indemnify the clearing brokers for losses they incur while extending credit to its clients. Credit risk exposes the Company to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties. The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include trading counterparts, customers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses, and other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities the Company holds. These parties may default on their obligations owed to the Company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties, executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries, and extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to the Company could adversely affect the Company's revenues and perhaps the Company's ability to borrow in the credit markets. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are -15- publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. We believe that we are able to evaluate and manage the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed. Nonetheless, our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers as well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk. Adverse results of current litigation and potential securities law liability would result in financial losses and divert management's attention to business. Many aspects of the Company's business involve substantial risks of liability. There has been an increase in litigation and arbitration within the securities industry in recent years, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. The Company is subject to potential claims by dissatisfied customers, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. National may be liable for the unauthorized acts of its retail brokers if it fails to adequately supervise their conduct. As an underwriter, the Company may be subject to substantial potential liability under federal and state law and court decisions, including liability for material misstatements and omissions in securities offerings. The Company may be required to contribute to a settlement, defense costs or a final judgment in legal proceedings or arbitrations involving a past underwriting and in actions that may arise in the future. National carries "Errors and Omissions" insurance to protect against arbitrations; however, the policy is limited in items and amounts covered and there can be no assurance that it will cover a particular complaint. The adverse resolution of any legal proceedings involving the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company depends on senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business. The Company depends on the continued services of its management team, particularly Mark Goldwasser, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as its ability to hire additional members of management, and to retain and motivate its other officers and key employees. In July 2003, the compensation committee of the Company and Mr. Goldwasser agreed to enter into an employment agreement for an annual base salary of $300,000. Mr. Goldwasser has been salaried at that rate since July 2003. The Company's future success also depends on its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. The Company faces significant competition for registered representatives. From time to time registered representatives affiliated with National may choose to leave our company to pursue other opportunities. The level of competition for registered representatives remains intense. The loss of a significant number of registered representatives could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results. -16- The price of the Common Stock is volatile. The price of the Common Stock has fluctuated substantially. (See Part II, Item 5). The market price of the Common Stock may be highly volatile as a result of factors specific to the Company and the securities markets in general. Factors affecting volatility may include: variations in the Company's annual or quarterly financial results or those of its competitors; economic conditions in general; and changes in applicable laws or regulations, or their judicial or administrative interpretations affecting the Company or its subsidiary or the securities industry. In addition, volatility of the market price of the Common Stock is further affected by its thinly traded nature. We have restricted shares outstanding that may depress the price of the Common Stock. As of September 30, 2005, of the 5,045,878 outstanding shares of Common Stock, 1,390,000 shares may be deemed restricted shares and, in the future, may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 provides that a person holding restricted securities for one year may sell shares in brokerage transactions, subject to limitations based on the number of shares outstanding and trading volume. A person who is not affiliated with us and who has held restricted securities for two years is not subject to these limitations as long as the other conditions of Rule 144 are met. Such sales may have a depressive effect on the price of the Common Stock in the open market. The Company's principal shareholders including our directors and officers control a large percentage of our shares of Common Stock and can significantly influence our corporate actions. At the present time, the Company's executive officers, directors and/or entities that these individuals are affiliated with, and certain more than 5% shareholders, own approximately 20% of our Common Stock, including shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, and excluding stock options and warrants. Accordingly, these individuals and entities will be able to significantly influence most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors, the appointment of officers, and potential merger or acquisition transactions. 