ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks in our business operations. We have identified below certain risks which we believe may affect our business and the principal ways in which we anticipate that they may affect our business or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our product warranty and related expenses could substantially increase our costs, and affect any potential distributions to our stockholders. Our warranty program exposes us to substantial costs that could affect our ability to distribute additional funds to our stockholders. Our warranty provides in most cases, broader and more complete coverage than that provided by the original equipment printer manufacturer. We provide warranties for our products as to suitability for use in the intended printer models and that our products are free of defects that could cause damage to these printers. Costs covered include customary charges for the repair or replacement of the printer with an equivalent new or refurbished printer, at our sole discretion. Despite the sale of our toner product line and exit from the solid ink business, we continue to be exposed to warranty expenses associated with the products manufactured and distributed before the ceasing of our operations. Some of the products we offered are internally complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain defects. Because we provide warranties to our customers, we may incur costs with remedying the problem. We may need to recall defective products if these defects are not discovered until after commercial shipment and may incur substantial product warranty and service costs if our products damage customer printers. Accordingly, any product defects could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Local laws in effect or that may be enacted in foreign jurisdictions may afford less protection to holders of our securities than those in effect in the United States. We presently have four non-U.S. subsidiaries, Media Sciences U.K. Limited, Media Sciences Trading Ltd. (a Bermudan entity), SAMC Funding I Limited (a Cayman Islands entity) and Media Sciences Hong Kong Co. Ltd. (a Hong Kong entity). These foreign subsidiaries are organized under the laws of their respective jurisdictions. Thus, holders of our securities should not conclude that assets and interests held by such foreign subsidiaries are subject to the same protections afforded similar entities incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Existing and future claims of intellectual property infringement against us could seriously harm our business. It is possible that third parties, including competitors, technology partners, and other technology companies, could claim that our past products, whether developed internally or acquired, infringe their rights, including their trade secret, copyright and patent rights. In the Asset Purchase Agreement with Katun, to whom we sold our toner business, we provided indemnification against claims of intellectual property infringement for the products sold to Katun through November 7, 2013. These types of claims, with or without merit, can cause costly litigation. Costs under this indemnification, when aggregated with all other indemnifications claims that arise through the Agreement with Katun, may not exceed $2 million. 6 Because of technological changes in our industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain of our products, components, and business methods may have unknowingly infringed existing patents of others. We attempted to ensure that the products we developed, and our processes, did not infringe upon third party patents and other proprietary rights. We typically conducted as many as three independent intellectual property reviews as an integral part of our product development process: an extensive in-house review, a review by external counsel, and our key suppliers conduct their own review. Before product launch, these independent reviews were compared and reconciled. Despite these efforts, we cannot guarantee that this process was effective in preventing the infringement of the patent rights of others. We do not believe that any threatened litigation, based on our assessment of merit, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, the litigation process is inherently expensive, uncertain and includes the risk of an unexpected, unfavorable result. Accordingly, it is possible in the future that the eventual outcome of any claims or litigation could materially and adversely affect our financial position and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may materially and adversely impact our business. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting, if our management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception of our company may decline and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is complex, costly and time-consuming. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only limited assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our stock price has been volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past and your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. For example, during the past twelve months ended June 30, 2011, the sales price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $0.55 per share to a low of $0.10 per share. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to the following: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; and · claims that may arise as a result of the dissolution process. The stock market in general and the market for small market capitalization technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our fluctuating stock price also carries other risks, including the increased risk of stockholder litigation. 7 We have authorized a class of preferred stock which may alter the rights of common stock holders by giving preferred stock holders greater dividend rights, liquidation rights and voting rights than our common stockholders have. Our board is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. While we do not currently have any shares of preferred stock outstanding, our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes a class of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designation, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, of which 1,000,000 shares were previously designated as Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents and certain provisions under Delaware law could be dilutive and prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting rights or such other rights, preferences and terms as it may determine. Also, Delaware law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction were favored by independent stockholders. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to resell their common stock in the secondary market. Since July 22, 2010, our common stock has been quoted on an electronic quotation system operated by Pink OTC Markets, and is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock rules,” which impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell that common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” Application of this rule could make broker-dealers unable or unwilling to sell our common stock and limit the ability of stockholders to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Securities quoted on the Pink Sheets generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, including lower trading volumes, delays in the timing of transactions, reduced securities analyst and news coverage, and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. Stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted on the Pink Sheets or at all. Additionally, our common stock may be more adversely affected by changes in general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Further, we cannot ensure that market makers will make a market in our common stock or that trading of its common stock will continue on the Pink Sheets. Our common stock not being traded on a national securities exchange could have other adverse effects, including limitations on our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing it needs in the future, and the loss of confidence in our company by current or prospective employees, customers, suppliers and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 8 