Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: •fluctuations in our operating results; •announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •governmental regulation and changes in medical device reimbursement policies; •developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; •public concern as to the safety and efficacy of devices that we and our competitors develop; •our ability to meet market expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for our product candidates; and •general market conditions. We may not be able to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. Currently our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol "WHRT". We must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain the NASDAQ Capital Market quotation, including certain governance requirements and a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and stockholder, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. 16 Table of Contents During 2009 and 2008, we received notices from The NASDAQ Stock Market stating non-compliance with various listing maintenance requirements. On February 1, 2010, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter notifying us that we do not comply with the independent audit committee requirements set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605. On October 28, 2008 and August 31, 2009, we received letters from the NASDAQ Staff notifying us that we failed to maintain a minimum of 500,000 publicly held shares requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(4). To date, we are in compliance with all minimum listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and all matters have been closed with NASDAQ. We have had difficulties maintaining compliance in the past and we might not be able to maintain compliance with all minimum listing requirements in the future. If we do not meet NASDAQ's continued listing requirements NASDAQ may take action to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. The sales of common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. None of the common stock we issued in the private placement in January 2010 has been registered pursuant to a resale registration statement. However, we also registered for resale stock issued in connection with prior private placements completed in 2010, 2008, 2006 and 2005. Sales by these stockholders could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership, following the completion of the July 2008 private placement and recapitalization and the January 2010 private placement, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our common stock is held by a relatively small number of investors. After the completion of our $7.3 million private placement in January 2010 and our $30.0 million private placement financing in July 2008, four of our largest stockholders collectively beneficially own approximately 95% of our common stock. These investors also have certain rights to designate members of our Board of Directors and may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including elections of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of WorldHeart or our assets for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Inquiries or proceedings regarding our stock option granting practices may be disruptive. We have been the subject of an inquiry from the Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) relating to our historical option granting practices in the past. We, and our current and former directors and officers, may become the subject of government inquiries, shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits and other legal proceedings relating to our historical option granting practices in the future. Should any of these events occur, they could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. 17 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our common stock, our shareholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt. Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions, along with Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, prohibiting certain business combinations with an interested stockholder, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. 