Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be susceptible to significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — announcements by governmental or regulatory authorities of significant investigations or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; — changes in our cost structure due to factors beyond our control, such as new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters and employment; — future sales of our ordinary shares; — general stock market price and volume fluctuations; and — further devaluation of the dollar against the NIS. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We do not expect to distribute dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain our current and any future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. - 10 - You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Although most of our sales are made to customers outside Israel, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2006. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon between Israel and Hezbollah forces and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip, which involved rocket attacks on populated areas in the northern parts of Israel. On August 14, 2006, a cease-fire between Hezbollah and Israel took effect. This situation has had an adverse effect on Israel’s economy, primarily in the geographical areas directly harmed by this conflict. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military reserve service. Many of our employees and some of our directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations may be harmed by currency fluctuations. We record our revenues and expenses in NIS. Our revenues are generally denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar and Euro, while our expenses are primarily denominated in NIS, U.S. dollars, Euros, dollar-linked NIS and Euro-linked NIS. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and non-NIS currencies may affect our operating results and financial condition. The NIS value of our U.S. dollar and Euro revenues decline if the NIS devaluates against the dollar and Euro. In addition, our expenses other than those paid in Israeli currency that are not-linked to other currencies are influenced by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar and the Euro. The NIS value of our U.S. dollar and Euro expenses increase if the NIS devaluates against the dollar and the Euro and other currencies other than NIS. In 2006, the U.S. dollar devaluated against the NIS by 8.2%. - 11 - From time to time in the past we have engaged in hedging transactions in order to partially protect ourselves from currency fluctuation and inflation risks and may use hedging instruments from time to time in the future. If we were to determine that it is in our best interests to enter into any other hedging transactions in the future, we may not be able to do so or such transactions, if entered into, may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore impact the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law currently does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is relatively little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. - 12 - 