D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve and sustain profitable operations. We may not have sufficient resources to fund our operations in the future. Although we were profitable in the past two years after four years of losses, there can be no assurance that we will continue to operate profitably in the future. To the extent that we incur operating losses in the future, we may have insufficient working capital to fund our operations. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will be required to obtain additional financing or reduce our level of expenditure. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, and results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We will require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our working capital requirements and cash flow provided by our operating and financing activities are likely to vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the following factors: (i) the timing of orders and deliveries; (ii) the purchase of new equipment; (iii) the build-up of inventories; (iv) the payment terms offered to our customers; (v) the payment terms offered by our suppliers; and (vi) approval of the current or additional lines of credit and long-term loans from banks. As of December 31, 2012, we had revolving lines of credit aggregating $3.9 million with our banks, all of which were fully utilized as of such date, and $2.2 million of long-term loans, including supplier credits. These credit facilities may not remain available to us in the future. Furthermore, under certain circumstances the banks may require us to accelerate the repayment of our credit facilities. All of our assets are pledged as security for our liabilities to our banks, whose consents are required for any future pledge of such assets. During the last several years we were unable to fully fund our technological development requirements due to our losses and limited financial resources. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to acquire new equipment and implement new technologies, which are likely to require significant capital investment that may not be available to us. To the extent that the funds generated from our operations and from our existing capital resources are insufficient to fund our operating and financial requirements, we will be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing or other sources. Any equity financing may cause dilution to our then current shareholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of then current shareholders will be diluted. We do not have any committed sources of additional financing, and additional financing, if necessary, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. - 3 - We may not be in compliance with banks’ covenants in the future. We are subject to financial covenants from the banks that provide us with our credit facilities and long-term loans. The borrowings from our banks are secured by specific liens on certain assets, by a first priority charge on the rest of our now-owned or after-acquired assets and by a fixed lien on goodwill (intangible assets) and insurance rights (rights to proceeds on insured assets in the event of damage). In addition, the agreements prohibit us from selling or otherwise transferring any assets except in the ordinary course of business or from placing a lien on our assets without the banks’ consent. Both of our banks require us to maintain a specific set of covenants for each fiscal year. Our compliance with the financial covenants is measured annually based on our audited financial statements for December 31. In recent years, including the year ended December 31, 2011, we were forced to seek waivers of certain of these covenants. Both banks have the right to demand immediate repayment of the loans and lines of credit in the event of a change of control in our company, if such a change occurred without their prior approval. Our failure to remain in compliance with each of the banks’ covenants, obtain waivers, negotiate agreements with new covenant terms, or obtain additional financing, if required, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Economic downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. Worsening economic conditions, such as the continued European sovereign debt uncertainty, may result in diminished demand for our products and in decreased sales volumes. Recessionary environments adversely affect the demand for our products as a result of constraints on capital spending by our customers. In addition, this could result in longer sales cycles, slower acceptance of new products and increased competition for our products, which in turn could cause us to reduce prices for our products resulting in reduced gross margins. Furthermore, the value of our investment in our Germany-based subsidiary, Kubatronik Leiterplatten GmbH, or Kubatronik, may decrease further as a result of the weak economy and as a result, we may record impairment losses in the future. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause equipment failures or disrupt our systems and operations. Although we have not experienced any of these events as of the date of this annual report, we expect that our inability to operate our facilities as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other competitors in the global PCB industry. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. In addition, a failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. We have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. However, to date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. While we use firewall and anti-virus systems, there is no assurance that cyber attacks will always be blocked or discovered, and as a result, we may encounter damages to our computer network servers, manipulation of our data (including production, financial and other information). - 4 - Rapid changes in the Israeli and international electronics industries and recessionary pressure may adversely affect our business. Our principal customers include manufacturers of defense and aerospace, medical, industrial, telecom and networking equipment, as well as contract electronic manufacturers. The electronics industry is subject to rapid technological changes and products obsolescence. Discontinuance or modification of products containing printed circuit boards, or PCBs, manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the electronics industry is subject to sharp economic cycles. Increased or excess production capacity by our competitors in the PCB industry and recessionary pressure in major electronics industry segments may result in intensified price competition and reduced margins. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A decline in the Israeli and international electronic markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition in the future. Technological change may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. Technological change in the PCB industry is rapid and continual. To satisfy customers’ needs for increasingly complex products, PCB manufacturers must continue to develop improved manufacturing processes, provide innovative solutions and invest in new facilities and equipment. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment are likely to require significant capital investment. We expect that we will need to invest large amounts in the next few years to replace or refurbish old equipment and to remain competitive in the market. This capital may not be available to us in the future for such purposes and any new manufacturing processes developed by us may not become or remain commercially viable. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current technological position. Furthermore, the PCB industry may in the future encounter competition from new technologies that may reduce demand for PCBs or may render existing technology less competitive or obsolete. Our future process development efforts may not be successful or the emergence of new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements may render our technology, equipment or processes obsolete or uncompetitive. Because competition in the PCB market is intense, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The global PCB industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. It is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and rapidly changing customer requirements. We compete principally in the market for complex, flex-rigid and rigid multi-layer PCBs. In the Israeli market we mainly compete with PCB Technologies Ltd. and major international PCB exporters, mainly from South East Asia, Europe and North America. In the European market we mainly compete with Advanced Circuit Boards NV (Belgium), AT&S Austria Technologie & Systemtechnik AG (Austria), Dyconex and Cicor (Switzerland), Graphics, Exception PCB and Invotec (United Kingdom), Cistelaier and Somacis (Italy), Schoeller-Electronics GmbH (formerly Ruwel Werke GmbH) (Germany) and certain other German companies. In the North American market we mainly compete with Viasystems North America, Inc. (previously known as DDi Corp.), KCA Electronics Inc., Lenthor Engineering, Printed Circuits, Inc., Teledyne and TTM Technologies Inc. and certain other American companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. Our current competition in the rigid PCB segment is mainly from PCB manufacturers in South East Asia (mainly in China), which have substantially lower production costs than us. Continued competitive pressures could cause us to lose significant market share. - 5 - We depend on our key customers and the loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our ten largest customers accounted for 59.7%, 55% and 50% of our revenues, respectively, of which one customer (consisting of two affiliated companies) accounted for 17.2%, 14.9% and 13.7% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be dependent on a small number of customers. If we are unable to retain our key customers or if we are unable to attract sufficient new business to compensate for the loss of any of our key customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our results of operations may be harmed by currency fluctuations. Our revenues and expenses are denominated in the NIS, U.S. dollar and Euros. Due to the different proportions of currencies our revenues and expenses are denominated in, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and other currencies may affect our operating results and financial condition. The NIS value of our U.S. dollar and Euro denominated revenues are negatively impacted by the depreciation of the U.S. dollar and the Euro against the NIS. The average exchange rate for the NIS against the U.S. dollar was 7.8% higher in 2012 than in 2011, which had a positive impact on our operating results in 2012. In the past, the NIS exchange rate against the dollar and other foreign currencies fluctuated, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of depreciation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If NIS value of our dollar or Euro denominated revenues decreases, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have recently encountered difficulties in obtaining lines of credits from our banks to perform hedging transactions in order to protect ourselves from currency fluctuations. If we were to determine that it is in our best interests to enter into any other hedging transactions in the future in order to protect ourselves in part from currency fluctuations, we may not be able to do so, or such transactions, if entered into, may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations and may result in additional expenses. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including (but not limited to) the following: · the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; · demand for our products and the mix of products purchased by our customers; · competition from lower priced manufacturers; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the NIS against the U.S. dollar and the Euro; · manufacturing yield; · plant utilization; · availability of raw materials; · plant or line shutdowns to repair or replace malfunctioning manufacturing equipment; · the length of our sales cycles; · changes in our strategy; · the number of working days in the quarter; - 6 - · changes in seasonal trends; and · general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that there will be significant differences between the results of one quarter to another. Quarterly sales and operating results are also difficult to forecast because quarterly sales and results are dependent, almost exclusively, on the volume and timing of orders during the quarter and our customers generally operate with a short delivery cycle and expect delivery of a significant portion of our production within 30 working days. The delivery of such orders is subject to the number of available working days during the quarter, which can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to holidays and vacations. Certain prototype and pre-production runs require even shorter turn-around times stemming from customers’ product launches and design changes. In addition, there might be sudden increases, decreases or cancellations of orders for which there are commitments, which further characterize the electronics industry and the companies that operate in it. The industry practice is to make such changes without any penalties, except for the time and materials expended on the order. Our business involves highly complex manufacturing processes that are subject to periodic failure. Process failures have occurred in the past and have resulted in delays in product shipments, and process failures may occur in the future. Further, our expenses are, in significant part, relatively fixed in the short-term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our net income is likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of the expenses varies with our revenues. We may not be able to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. An ongoing pattern of cancellations, reductions in orders and delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Due to all of the foregoing, it is very difficult to predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with those laws and regulations requires us to incur costs and we are subject to fines or other sanctions for non-compliance. Our operations are regulated under various environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a major consideration for PCB manufacturers because metals and chemicals classified as hazardous substances are used in the manufacturing process. Since May 2003, our environmental management system has been ISO 14001 certified. This certification was based on successful implementation of environmental management requirements and includes ongoing monitoring of our processes, raw materials and products. The certification is subject to periodic compliance audits conducted by the Israeli Institute of Standards. If, in the future, we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be liable for damages, costs of remedial actions, may be subject to criminal prosecution including a range of potential penalties, and could also be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our business or any part thereof. Any such liability or revocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with a violation. A shortage of water in Israel may reduce the allocation of water available to manufacturing plants, including ours, which could affect the concentrations of pollutants in our wastewater, making it harder to comply with the foregoing regulations, in which event we would be required to invest additional funds to improve our wastewater treatment systems. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations depends in part on the requirements in such laws and regulations and on the method selected to implement them. If new or more restrictive standards are imposed, the cost of compliance could be very high and have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations if we cannot recover those costs through the rates that we charge our customers. - 7 - We have in the past been, and currently are, subject to claims and litigation relating to environmental matters. If we are found to be in violation of environmental laws, we could be liable for damages and costs of remediation and may be subject to a halt in production, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have in the past been, and currently are, subject to claims and litigation relating to environmental matters. We may be subject to further environmental claims alleging that we are in violation of environmental laws. If we are unsuccessful in such claims and other future claims and litigations or if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to losses that could be material to our company. On August 25, 2009, we received a notice from the Petach Tikva Municipality claiming that random automatic wastewater sampling in proximity of our plant indicates high levels of metal concentrations which exceed the amounts permitted by law. The Municipality requested our explanations to such alleged violation and further informed us that its environmental department has determined to initiate procedures against any plant that is not in compliance with the permitted concentrations. On September 16, 2009, we sent a letter to the Municipality explaining that we have invested extensive funds and resources each year in order to comply with all environmental legal requirements. We further indicated that we have been and are still engaged in several projects to reduce salt and metal concentrations in our plant wastewater and that we constantly update our procedures with respect to environmental matters. In addition, we proposed to collaborate with the Municipality and conduct mutual tests to ensure maximum protection of the environment. To date, we have not received any response from the Municipality to our letter dated September 16, 2009. If we are found to be in violation of environmental laws, we could be liable for damages, costs of remedial actions and a range of potential penalties, and could also be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our business or any part thereof. Any such liability or revocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties may require us to incur significant costs. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed on a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend against the claim. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or a settlement could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We might not be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also may not be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering the product. Infringement claims asserted against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A supplier of one of our software packages requested to conduct an audit of our operation to verify that we do not breach any intellectual property rights he allegedly owns. We believe that we have fully, diligently and timely complied with our obligation toward the supplier. We also believe that the supplier has no right to conduct any audit of our products or services and such audit may cause us to breach confidentiality obligations to other entities. If we are found to be in violation of such supplier's intellectual property rights, we could be liable for compensation and costs of an unknown amount. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in our efforts to expand into the U.S. defense market. If we are unsuccessful, our future revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. In January 2009, we received International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) registration from the U.S. Department of State, which certifies us to sell our PCBs to the U.S. defense market. Our business plan assumes an increase in revenues to the U.S. defense market based on our receipt of this certification. However, our efforts to enter into to the U.S. defense market may not succeed and sales to the defense and aerospace industries may be affected by cutbacks in U.S. government spending, and this may not become a substantial market for us. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our future revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, in the event of a change in control of our company, the U.S. Department of State may investigate the transfer of control and oppose the transaction. In such an event we may lose our ITAR certification, which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. - 8 - We are dependent upon a select number of suppliers of key raw materials and the loss of one or more of these suppliers would adversely affect our manufacturing ability. If these suppliers delay or discontinue the manufacture or supply of these raw materials, we may experience delays in production and shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We currently obtain our key raw materials from a select number of suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers and our principal suppliers may not continue to supply raw materials to us at current levels or at all. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these raw materials could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and may result in the cancellation of orders for our products. One of our major raw material suppliers is Gadot Chemical Tankers and Terminals Ltd., or Gadot, which was owned by our controlling shareholder until December 2012. In December 2012, a receiver was appointed for Gadot. No assurances can be given that the appointment of a receiver will not affect Gadot’s operations or its ability to deliver raw materials to us; in such event our operations may be materially and adversely affected. As the majority of PCB manufacturing is centered in South East Asia, raw material suppliers may focus their attention and give higher priority to manufacturers in those areas, which may interrupt the supply of raw materials to us. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these raw materials at any time. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our purchases from one supplier accounted for 24.5%, 18.4% and 16.1% of our total consolidated raw material costs, respectively. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in production and shipment and increased expenses and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an alternative source of supply, we may have to modify our products or a large portion of our production process to use a substitute raw material, which may cause delays in production and shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. Our operating margins may be affected as a result of price increases for our principal raw materials. In recent years, the significant increase in oil and energy costs and commodity prices (such as copper, gold and glass fibers) put pressure on our suppliers to increase their prices for most of our principal raw materials. We may not be successful in our attempts to negotiate lower price increases than requested by our suppliers. We have faced pressure to raise our prices for our products to compensate for supplier price increases in order to maintain our operating margins, and we may not be able to maintain moderate price increases as we have in the past. Future price increases for our principal raw materials may materially affect our operating margins and future profitability. We may encounter difficulties with our international operations and sales that may have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have manufacturing facilities in Israel and Germany and generate a large percentage of our sales in Europe and North America. Our sales in Europe for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 accounted for 25.4%, 28.6% and 27% of our consolidated revenues, respectively, of which 9.4%, 12% and 10.5% was generated in Germany, respectively. Our sales in North America for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 accounted for 16.8%, 11.5% and 17.6% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. We intend to increase our business in North America, including sales to U.S. military contractors. However contracts with U.S. military agencies, as well as military equipment manufacturers in Europe, are subject to certain regulatory restrictions and approvals, which we may not be able to comply with or obtain. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: · the impact of possible recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; · changes in regulatory requirements and complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; - 9 - · tariffs and other trade barriers; · the imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and · political and economic instability. Our results may be adversely affected by product liability claims. The sale of our products may entail the risk of product liability claims, which are likely to be substantial in light of the use of our products in business-critical applications. Over the years we have been involved in claims or litigations relating to allegedly defective products. If such suits are brought against us in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our workforce will be represented by a labor union we could incur additional costs or experience work stoppages as a result of the renegotiation of our labor contracts. In November 2011, we were notified by the General Federation of Labor in Israel, or the Histadrut, that more than one-third of our employees in Israel had decided to join the Histadrut and that they have established an employees’ union committee. In 2012, a significant portion of our employees decided to resign their membership in the Histadrut, which then ceased to represent our employees. If our employees decide to re-join the Histadrut, we could incur additional costs and/or experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business operations, including through a loss of revenue and strained relationships with customers. We may encounter difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of future business acquisitions and investments. We believe that the acquisition of and the investment in new subsidiaries could assist us in reaching our goals of focusing on the high end flex-rigid and specialty PCB market, and in expanding our exports mainly into Europe and North America. Any acquisition or investment would present risks commonly encountered in the acquisition of or investment in other businesses. The following are examples of such risks, one or more of which may apply to any such acquisition or investment: · difficulty in combining the technology, operations or work force of the acquired business; · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to the amortization or write-down of intangible assets associated with acquisitions; · diversion of management attention from running our existing business; and · increased expenses, including compensation expenses resulting from newly-hired employees. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. - 10 - Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be susceptible to significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · announcements by governmental or regulatory authorities of significant investigations or proceedings against us; · additions or departures of key personnel; · changes in our cost structure due to factors beyond our control, such as new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters and employment; · future sales of our ordinary shares; · general stock market price and volume fluctuations; and · devaluation of the dollar against the NIS. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. The uncertainty surrounding the continued ownership of our shares by our principal shareholder may result in a change in control and our operations and share price may be adversely affected. Mr. Josef Maiman, through Merhav M.N.F. Ltd. and Integral International Inc., holds 24.1% of our shares and exercises a substantial influence over our management. Mr. Maiman is currently facing financial difficulties and should he divest all or a significant portion of his interest in us, it may result in a change in control and in our management and our operations could be adversely affected. As a result, we are currently investigating the possible sale of our company or substantially all of its assets. The uncertainty arising from this situation may negatively affect our operations as well as the market price for our shares. - 11 - If we fail to maintain NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement of a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, our shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ELTK.” To continue to be listed on NASDAQ, we need to satisfy a number of requirements, including a minimum bid price for our ordinary shares of $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days. If we fail to comply with such requirement, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance by meeting the applicable standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, NASDAQ may afford us an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period we have demonstrated that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and for certain periods have traded below the $1.00 threshold requirement for continued trading. In 2012, the price of our ordinary shares ranged from $0.87 to $1.69 and the closing price of our ordinary shares on December 31, 2012 was $1.10 per share. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement, our share may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares would be conducted on a market where an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of, our ordinary shares. We do not expect to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain our current and any future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (as defined by the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due, or otherwise upon the permission of the court. In the event cash dividends are declared, such dividends will be paid in NIS. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices, production or manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2013. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions, including Egypt and Syria, have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. - 12 - Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military reserve service. Some of our employees, directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore impact the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. Currently there is not a clear definition of the duty of fairness under Israeli law. However, a recent decision by a District Court provided that in addition to the duty to act in fairness towards the company, a controlling shareholder holds a direct duty of fairness towards the minority shareholders in a going-private merger transaction. Israeli corporate law has in recent years undergone and is currently undergoing extensive revision and there is relatively little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern the rights and responsibilities of shareholders. - 13 - As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, compensation of officers and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 