D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market One key customer accounts for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of this customer or other key customers would have an adverse impact on our business results. In the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, one customer (consisting of ten affiliated companies) accounted for 20.6%, 18.4% and 17.2% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be dependent on a small number of customers. If we are unable to retain our key customers, or maintain our level of business with such customers, or, if we are unable to attract sufficient new business to compensate for the loss of or reduction in business from any of our key customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our revenues and expenses are denominated in NIS, dollars and Euros. Due to the different proportions of currencies our revenues and expenses are denominated in, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and other currencies may affect our operating results and financial condition. The NIS value of our dollar and Euro denominated revenues are negatively impacted by the depreciation of the dollar and the Euro against the NIS. The average exchange rate for the NIS against the dollar was 1.3% lower in 2014 than in 2013, which had a negative impact on our operating results in 2014. In the past, the NIS exchange rate against the dollar and other foreign currencies fluctuated, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of depreciation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If NIS value of our dollar or Euro denominated revenues decreases, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are currently not engaged in hedging transactions. If we were to decide to enter into any hedging transactions in the future in order to protect ourselves in part from currency fluctuations, we may not be successful in our hedging efforts, or such transactions, if entered into may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. Such hedging transactions may not necessarily mitigate the longer-term impact of currency fluctuations on the operating costs of our business operations, and may result in additional expenses. -3- Economic downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. Worsening economic conditions, such as the ongoing Eurozone crisis, may result in diminished demand for our products and in decreased sales volumes. Recessionary environments adversely affect the demand for our products as a result of constraints on capital spending by our customers. In addition, this could result in longer sales cycles, slower acceptance of new products and increased competition for our products, which in turn could cause us to reduce prices for our products resulting in reduced gross margins. Any of these events may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continued losses of our Germany-based subsidiary, Kubatronik, could adversely affect our financial results Our Germany-based subsidiary, Kubatronik Leiterplatten GmbH, or Kubatronik, has incurred losses in recent years. During the fiscal year 2014, we have financed Kubatronik's operational losses in the aggregate amount of 657,000 Euros ($863,000) such that Kubatronik's intercompany debt as of December 31, 2014 amounted to approximately 737,000 Euros ($895,000). In the event Kubatronik is unable to repay its debt to us, we may be required to record this inter-company debt as a loss. In the event the performance of Kubatronik does not improve, we may need to record impairment losses in respect of our investment. Also, continued losses by Kubatronik may have an adverse impact on our cash flows and financial results. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with those laws and regulations requires us to incur costs and we are subject to fines or other sanctions for non-compliance. Our operations are regulated under various environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a major consideration for PCB manufacturers because metals and chemicals classified as hazardous substances are used in the manufacturing process. Since May 2003, our environmental management system has been ISO 14001 certified. This certification was based on successful implementation of environmental management requirements and includes ongoing monitoring of our processes, raw materials and products. The certification is subject to periodic compliance audits conducted by the Israeli Institute of Standards. If, in the future, we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be liable for damages, costs of remedial actions, may be subject to criminal prosecution including a range of potential penalties, and could also be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our business or any part thereof. Any such liability or revocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with a violation. A shortage of water in Israel may reduce the allocation of water available to manufacturing plants, including ours, which could affect the concentrations of pollutants in our wastewater, making it harder to comply with the foregoing regulations, in which event we would be required to invest additional funds to improve our wastewater treatment systems. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations depends in part on the requirements in such laws and regulations and on the method selected to implement them. If new or more restrictive standards are imposed, the cost of compliance could be very high and have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations if we cannot recover those costs through the rates that we charge our customers. Our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations, legal requirements and industry standards, including many of the industry-specific regulations discussed above. Our customers' failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular programs for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business. -4- Rapid changes in the Israeli and international electronics industries and recessionary pressure may adversely affect our business. Our principal customers include manufacturers of defense and aerospace, medical, industrial, telecom and networking equipment, as well as contract electronic manufacturers. The electronics industry is subject to rapid technological changes and products obsolescence. Discontinuance or modification of products containing printed circuit boards, or PCBs, manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the electronics industry is subject to sharp economic cycles. Increased or excess production capacity by our competitors in the PCB industry and recessionary pressure in major electronics industry segments may result in intensified price competition and reduced margins. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A decline in the Israeli and international electronic markets may cause a decline in our revenues and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition in the future. We have in the past been, and currently are, subject to claims and litigation relating to environmental matters. If we are found to be in violation of environmental laws, we could be liable for damages and costs of remediation and may be subject to a halt in production, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have in the past been, and currently are, subject to claims and litigation relating to environmental matters. We may be subject to further environmental claims alleging that we are in violation of environmental laws. If we are unsuccessful in such claims and other future claims and litigations or if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to losses that could be material to our company. On August 25, 2009, we received a notice from the Petach Tikva Municipality claiming that random automatic wastewater sampling in proximity of our plant indicates high levels of metal concentrations which exceed the amounts permitted by law. The Municipality requested our explanations to such alleged violation and further informed us that its environmental department has determined to initiate procedures against any plant that is not in compliance with the permitted concentrations. On September 16, 2009, we sent a letter to the Municipality explaining that we have invested extensive funds and resources each year in order to comply with all environmental legal requirements. We further indicated that we have been and are still engaged in several projects to reduce salt and metal concentrations in our plant wastewater and that we constantly update our procedures with respect to environmental matters. In addition, we proposed to collaborate with the Municipality and conduct mutual tests to ensure maximum protection of the environment. To date, we have not yet received any response from the Municipality to our letter dated September 16, 2009. In January 2014 and in July 2014, we received notices from Meitav, the water company of the Petach Tikva municipality, requiring payment of fees totaling NIS 1.4 million ($400,000) excluding VAT, for discharges of industrial wastewater allegedly not meeting the applicable standards into the municipal sewage system. The payment demands were made on the basis of four samplings conducted by Meitav in our premises during 2013. We presented to Meitav our plans for a new wastewater treatment facility, in an effort to have Meitav rescind or reduce its demand for payment. Management believes that that we have good arguments against such demand for payment and that we will not be required to pay to Meitav any amounts exceeding the amounts provided for in our financial statements. In July 2014, we entered into an agreement with Elad Technologies (L.S) Ltd., pursuant to which, Elad Technologies will build and operate a wastewater treatment facility for our use. The new wastewater treatment facility is expected to be completed in the second half of 2015. If we are found to be in violation of environmental laws, then in addition to fees, we could be liable for damages, costs of remedial actions and a range of potential penalties, and could also be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our business or any part thereof. Any such liability or revocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -5- Because competition in the PCB market is intense, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The global PCB industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. It is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and rapidly changing customer requirements. We compete principally in the market for complex, flex-rigid and rigid multi-layer PCBs. In the Israeli market we mainly compete with PCB Technologies Ltd. and major international PCB exporters, mainly from South East Asia, Europe and North America. In the European market we mainly compete with Advanced Circuit Boards NV (Belgium), AT&S Austria Technologie & Systemtechnik AG (Austria), Dyconex and Cicor (Switzerland), Graphics, Exception PCB and Invotec (United Kingdom), Cistelaier and Somacis (Italy), Schoeller-Electronics GmbH (formerly Ruwel Werke GmbH) (Germany) and certain other German companies. In the North American market we mainly compete with Viasystems North America, Inc. (previously known as DDi Corp.), KCA Electronics Inc., Lenthor Engineering, Printed Circuits, Inc., Teledyne and TTM Technologies Inc. and certain other American companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. Our current competition in the rigid PCB segment is mainly from PCB manufacturers in South East Asia (mainly in China), which have substantially lower production costs than us. Continued competitive pressures could cause us to lose significant market share. We are dependent upon a select number of suppliers of key raw materials and the loss of one or more of these suppliers would adversely affect our manufacturing ability. If these suppliers delay or discontinue the manufacture or supply of these raw materials, we may experience delays in production and shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We currently obtain our key raw materials from a select number of suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers and our principal suppliers may not continue to supply raw materials to us at current levels or at all. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these raw materials could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and may result in the cancellation of orders for our products. As the majority of PCB manufacturing is centered in South East Asia, raw material suppliers may focus their attention and give higher priority to manufacturers in those areas, which may interrupt the supply of raw materials to us. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these raw materials at any time. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our purchases from one supplier accounted for 24.1% 23.1% and 24.5% of our total consolidated raw material costs, respectively. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in production and shipment and increased expenses and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an alternative source of supply, we may have to modify our products or a large portion of our production process to use a substitute raw material, which may cause delays in production and shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. We may not succeed in our efforts to expand into the U.S. defense market. If we are unsuccessful, our future revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. In January 2009, we received International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) registration from the U.S. Department of State, which certifies us to sell our PCBs to the U.S. defense market. Our business plan assumes an increase in revenues to the U.S. defense market. However, our efforts to enter into to the U.S. defense market may not succeed and sales to the defense and aerospace industries may be affected by cutbacks in U.S. government spending, and this may not become a substantial market for us. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our future revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. In the event of a change in control of our company, the U.S. Department of State may investigate the transfer of control and oppose the transaction. In such an event we may lose our ITAR certification, which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. In November 2013, Nistec Ltd., or Nistec, an Israeli private company controlled by Mr. Yitzhak Nissan, acquired a controlling interest in our company. While the U.S. Department of State did not object to this change in our control, we cannot assure you that such transaction may not be opposed in the future. We may encounter difficulties with our international operations and sales that may have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We have manufacturing facilities in Israel and Germany and generate a large percentage of our sales in Israel, Europe and North America. We intend to increase our business in North America, including sales to U.S. military contractors. However, contracts with U.S. military agencies, as well as military equipment manufacturers in Europe, are subject to certain regulatory restrictions and approvals, which we may not be able to comply with or obtain. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. -6- International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: · the impact of possible recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; · changes in regulatory requirements and complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · the imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and · political and economic instability. We may not be successful in achieving the potential benefits of our new relationship with Nistec. In November 2013, Nistec acquired a controlling interest in our company. Acquisition transactions are subject to a variety of risks that could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and share price. These risks include, among others: · incurrence of unexpected expenses associated with acquisitions and their integration into our company; · difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products, and information systems of the companies; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · contractual disputes; · entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees; · incompatible business cultures; · difficulties in implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls and policies; · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of integration of new personnel; and · potential inability to retain, integrate and motivate key management, marketing, technical sales and customer support personnel. Compliance with the conditions of a new business permit may be costly. In connection with the change of control of our company that resulted from Nistec’s acquisition of a controlling stake in our company, Israeli law requires us to obtain a new business permit in order to continue operating our business. We have submitted an application for this permit, but we have not yet received the new permit. The new permit is expected to be subject to certain conditions, especially conditions imposed by the Israeli Ministry for Environmental Protection. Compliance with these conditions may be costly. -7- We had a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve and sustain long term profitable operations. We may not have sufficient resources to fund our operations in the future. We have not maintained consistent profitable operations in the past, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. To the extent that we incur operating losses in the future, we may have insufficient working capital to fund our operations. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will be required to obtain additional financing or reduce our level of expenditure. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, and results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including (but not limited to) the following: · the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; · demand for our products and the mix of products purchased by our customers; · competition from lower priced manufacturers; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the NIS against the dollar and the Euro; · manufacturing yield; · plant utilization; · availability of raw materials; · plant or line shutdowns to repair or replace malfunctioning manufacturing equipment; · the length of our sales cycles; · changes in our strategy; · the number of working days in the quarter; · changes in seasonal trends; and · general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that there will be significant differences between the results of one quarter to another. Quarterly sales and operating results are also difficult to forecast because quarterly sales and results are dependent, almost exclusively, on the volume and timing of orders during the quarter and our customers generally operate with a short delivery cycle and expect delivery of a significant portion of our production within 30 working days. The delivery of such orders is subject to the number of available working days during the quarter, which can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to holidays and vacations. Certain prototype and pre-production runs require even shorter turn-around times stemming from customers’ product launches and design changes. In addition, there might be sudden increases, decreases or cancellations of orders for which there are commitments, which further characterize the electronics industry and the companies that operate in it. The industry practice is to make such changes without any penalties, except for the time and materials expended on the order. -8- Our expenses are, in significant part, relatively fixed in the short-term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our net income is likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of the expenses varies with our revenues. We may not be able to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. An ongoing pattern of cancellations, reductions in orders and delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Due to all of the foregoing, it is very difficult to predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We may not be in compliance with financial covenants in our loan agreements in the future. We are subject to financial covenants in the loan agreements from the banks that provide us with our credit facilities and long-term loans. The borrowings from our banks are secured by specific liens on certain assets, by a first priority charge on the rest of our now-owned or after-acquired assets and by a fixed lien on goodwill (intangible assets) and insurance rights (rights to proceeds on insured assets in the event of damage). In addition, the agreements prohibit us from selling or otherwise transferring any assets except in the ordinary course of business or from placing a lien on our assets without the banks’ consent. Both of our banks require us to be in compliance with certain financial covenants in each fiscal year. Our compliance with the financial covenants is measured annually based on our annual audited financial statements. In recent years, we were forced to seek waivers of certain of these covenants. Both banks have the right to demand immediate repayment of the loans and lines of credit in the event of a change of control in our company, if such a change occurred without their prior approval. Our failure to remain in compliance with each of the banks’ covenants, obtain waivers, negotiate agreements with new covenant terms, or obtain additional financing, if required, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Our products and related manufacturing processes are often highly complex and therefore we may be delayed in product shipment. Also our products may at times contain manufacturing defects, which may subject us to product liability and warranty claims. Our business involves highly complex manufacturing processes that are subject to periodic failure. Process failures have occurred in the past and have resulted in delays in product shipments, and process failures may occur in the future. Further, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims, which are likely to be substantial in light of the use of our products in business-critical applications. Our products may fail to perform as expected or may be alleged to result in bodily injury or property damage. If we were to manufacture and deliver products to our customers that contain defects, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure, or by deficiencies in the manufacturing processes, it may result in delayed shipments to customers and reduced or cancelled customer orders. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. Over the years we have been involved in claims or litigation relating to allegedly defective products. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our established warranty and legal reserves or available insurance coverage, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and may harm our business reputation, which could lead to customer cancellations or non-renewals. Our operating margins may be affected as a result of price increases for our principal raw materials. In recent years, the significant increase in oil and energy costs and commodity prices (such as copper, gold and glass fibers) put pressure on our suppliers to increase their prices for most of our principal raw materials. We may not be successful in our attempts to negotiate lower price increases than requested by our suppliers. We have faced pressure to raise our prices for our products to compensate for supplier price increases in order to maintain our operating margins, and we may not be able to maintain moderate price increases as we have in the past. Future price increases for our principal raw materials may materially affect our operating margins and future profitability. -9- Obstacles in our transition to a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system may adversely affect our business and results of operations and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting . In the third quarter of 2014, we began the implementation of a new ERP system that will deliver a new generation of work processes and information systems. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects and involve substantial expenditures. ERP implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes. We expect to complete the implementation of our new ERP system in 2015. If we do not effectively implement the new ERP system as planned or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems, our ability to produce financial reports and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our working capital requirements and cash flow provided by our operating and financing activities are likely to vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the following factors: (i) the timing of orders and deliveries; (ii) net profit in the period; (iii) the purchase of new equipment; (iv) the build-up of inventories; (v) the payment terms offered to our customers; (vi) the payment terms offered by our suppliers; and (vii) approval of the current or additional lines of credit and long-term loans from banks. As of December 31, 2014, we had revolving lines of credit aggregating - $2.7 million with our banks, all of which were fully utilized as of such date, and $2.3million of long-term loans, including supplier credits. These credit facilities may not remain available to us in the future. Furthermore, under certain circumstances the banks may require us to accelerate or make immediate payment in full of our credit facilities. All of our assets are pledged as security for our liabilities to our banks, whose consents are required for any future pledge of such assets. During the last several years we were unable to fully fund our technological development requirements due to our losses and limited financial resources. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to acquire new equipment and implement new technologies, which are likely to require significant capital investment that may not be available to us. In November 2013, we raised $4.2 million from Nistec ,which is now our controlling shareholder, in a private placement of our ordinary shares. To the extent that the funds generated from our operations and from our existing capital resources are insufficient to fund our operating and financial requirements, we will be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing or other sources. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders will be diluted. We do not have any committed sources of additional financing, and additional financing, if necessary, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, natural disasters, pandemics, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause equipment failures or disrupt our systems and operations. Although we have not experienced any of these events as of the date of this annual report, we expect that our inability to operate our facilities as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other competitors in the global PCB industry. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. In addition, a failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber-attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. We have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber-attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. However, to date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. While we use firewall and anti-virus systems, there is no assurance that cyber-attacks will always be blocked or discovered, and as a result, we may encounter damages to our computer network servers, manipulation of our data (including production, financial and other information). -10- If our workforce will be represented by a labor union we could incur additional costs or experience work stoppages as a result of the renegotiation of our labor contracts. In November 2011, we were notified by the General Federation of Labor in Israel, or the Histadrut, that more than one-third of our employees in Israel had decided to join the Histadrut and that they established an employees’ union committee. In 2012, a significant portion of our employees decided to resign their membership in the Histadrut, which then ceased to represent our employees. If our employees are represented by a union in the future, we could incur additional costs, experience work stoppages, either of which could adversely affect our business operations, including through a loss of revenue and strained relationships with customers. New requirements related to conflict-free minerals may disrupt our operations, cause us to incur additional expenses, create challenges with our customers, or result in other significant adverse effects. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, regarding the use of certain minerals and derivative metals referred to collectively as “conflict minerals”. Conflict minerals include tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten. We use some of such minerals as component parts in our products. We have implemented procedures to investigate whether any such minerals that we manufacture or use in our products originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. Our first report under these requirements was due by June 2, 2014, and was filed on May 27, 2014. Complying with these new SEC rules will be both time-consuming and costly. In addition, these rules could harm the sourcing, supply, and price of raw materials that we use in our products. If we cannot timely verify the sources of all conflict minerals used in our products, or if we cannot replace any conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries with acceptable alternatives, we may face reputational damage or be unable to satisfy customers who require all of the components of our products to be certified as “conflict-free”. If we cannot meet such customer requirements, our customers may choose not to purchase our products, and our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition to SEC regulations, industry standards and our customers may require us to comply with their own social responsibility, conflict minerals, quality or other business policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations and our pre-existing policies, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us. Such policies or standards may be customer-driven, established by the industries in which we operate, or imposed by third party organizations. Our compliance with these policies, standards and third-party certification requirements could be costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our operations, customer relationships, reputation and profitability. Increased regulation associated with climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impose significant additional costs on operations. Various governments and governmental agencies have adopted or are contemplating statutory and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases. International treaties or agreements may also result in increasing regulation of climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of greenhouse gas emissions trading mechanisms. Any such law or regulation regarding climate change and greenhouse gas emissions could impose significant costs on our operations and on the operations of our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring, reporting and other compliance costs. The potential costs of “allowances,” “offsets” or “credits” that may be part of potential cap-and-trade programs or similar proposed regulatory measures are still uncertain. Any adopted future climate change and greenhouse gas laws or regulations could negatively impact our ability, and that of our customers and suppliers, to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such laws or regulations. These statutory and regulatory initiatives, if enacted, may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers or customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future law or regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. -11- We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued active participation of our executive officers and other key personnel. In addition, there is significant competition for employees with technical expertise in our industry. In order to succeed we would need to be able to: · retain our executive officers and key technical personnel; · attract and retain additional qualified personnel to provide technological depth and support to enhance existing products and develop new products; and · attract and retain highly skilled operations, marketing and financial personnel. We cannot make assurances that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel and attract additional qualified personnel as and when needed, our business may be adversely affected. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Technological change may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. Technological change in the PCB industry is rapid and continual. To satisfy customers’ needs for increasingly complex products, PCB manufacturers must continue to develop improved manufacturing processes, provide innovative solutions and invest in new facilities and equipment. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment are likely to require significant capital investment. We expect that we will need to invest large amounts in the next few years to replace or refurbish old equipment and to remain competitive in the market. This capital may not be available to us in the future for such purposes and any new manufacturing processes developed by us may not become or remain commercially viable. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our current technological position. Furthermore, the PCB industry may in the future encounter competition from new technologies that may reduce demand for PCBs or may render existing technology less competitive or obsolete. Our future process development efforts may not be successful or the emergence of new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements may render our technology, equipment or processes obsolete or uncompetitive. We will need to compete with PCB manufacturers in Asia whose manufacturing costs are lower than ours. In recent years, many electronics manufacturers have moved their commercial production to Asia to take advantage of its exceptionally large, relatively low-cost labor pool. The continued outsourcing of production to the Far-East is likely to result in additional commercial market share potential for PCB manufacturers with a strong presence and reputation in such markets. Accordingly, we will need to compete with PCB manufacturers whose costs of production may be substantially lower than ours. This competition may limit our ability to price our products profitably, which could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. -12- The measures we take in order to protect our intellectual property may not be effective or sufficient. Our success depends in part on our proprietary techniques and manufacturing expertise, particularly in the area of complex multi-layer and flex-rigid PCBs. We currently rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. Like many companies in the PCB industry, we do not hold any patents. We believe that, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the electronics industry, the legal protections for our products are less significant factors in our success than the knowledge, ability and experience of our employees, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of support services that we provide. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and potential customers and limit the access to and the distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. Further, the laws of certain countries in which we sell our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Substantial unauthorized use of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot make assurances that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties may require us to incur significant costs. While we do not believe that our products and proprietary rights infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, third parties may assert infringement claims against us or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed on a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend against the claim. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or a settlement could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We might not be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also may not be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering the product. Infringement claims asserted against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A supplier of one of our software packages requested to conduct an audit of our operation to verify that we do not breach any intellectual property rights he allegedly owns. We believe that we have fully, diligently and timely complied with our obligation toward the supplier. We also believe that the supplier has no right to conduct any audit of our products or services and such audit may cause us to breach confidentiality obligations to other entities. If we are found to be in violation of such supplier's intellectual property rights, we could be liable for compensation and costs of an unknown amount. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and product components need to meet certain industry standards. Our products and product components need to meet certain standards for the aerospace, defense, and other industries to which we market our products. In addition, new industry standards in the aviation and defense industries could cause some or all of our products and services to become obsolete and unmarketable, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Noncompliance with any of these standards could limit our sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be required to make payments to satisfy our indemnification obligations. We have agreements with our directors and senior officers which may require us, subject to Israeli law and certain limitations in the agreements, to indemnify our directors and senior officers for certain liabilities and expenses that may be imposed on them due to acts performed, or failures to act, in their capacity as office holders as defined in the Israeli Companies Law 5759-1999. These liabilities may include financial liabilities imposed by judgments or settlements in favor of third parties, and reasonable litigation expenses imposed by a court in relation to criminal charges from which the indemnitee was acquitted or criminal proceedings in which the indemnitee was convicted of an offense that does not require proof of criminal intent. In addition, we agreed to exculpate our directors and officers with respect to a breach of their duty of care towards our company. -13- In addition, as part of the transaction in which Nistec acquired a controlling stake in our company, we agreed to indemnify Nistec for any losses or liabilities occasioned by the breach of any representations or warranties that we made in the investment agreement. If we are found to have breached any of these representations or warranties, we could be required to expend significant amounts of cash to meet our indemnification obligations. Payments made pursuant to such indemnification obligations may materially adversely affect our financial condition Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be susceptible to significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · announcements by governmental or regulatory authorities of significant investigations or proceedings against us; · additions or departures of key personnel; · changes in our cost structure due to factors beyond our control, such as new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters and employment; · future sales of our ordinary shares; · general stock market price and volume fluctuations; and · devaluation of the dollar against the NIS. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. -14- The 50.5% voting interest of Nistec, our controlling shareholder, may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. As of March 31, 2015, Nistec beneficially owns 50.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, Nistec has the ability to exercise a significant influence over our business and affairs and generally has the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders where our shares vote together as a single class, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Nistec may make decisions regarding Eltek and our business that are opposed to other shareholders' interests or with which other shareholders may disagree. Nistec's voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of our Company that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. If we fail to maintain NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement of a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, our shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ELTK.” To continue to be listed on NASDAQ, we need to satisfy a number of requirements, including a minimum bid price for our ordinary shares of $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days. If we fail to comply with such requirement, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance by meeting the applicable standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, NASDAQ may afford us an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period we have demonstrated that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and for certain periods have traded below the $1.00 threshold requirement for continued trading. In 2014, the price of our ordinary shares ranged from $1.14 to $2.87 and the closing price of our ordinary shares on December 31, 2014 was $1.17 per share. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement, our share may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares would be conducted on a market where an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of, our ordinary shares. We do not expect to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain our current and any future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (as defined by the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due, or otherwise upon the permission of the court. In the event cash dividends are declared, such dividends will be paid in NIS. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices, production or manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -15- Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2014. Since early July 2014, there has been a significant increase in hostilities between Hamas, an Islamist organization governing the Gaza Strip, and Israel, including missiles launched by Hamas from the Gaza Strip into Israel and airstrikes and ground operations conducted by Israel in the Gaza Strip. On July 21, 2014, all U.S. airlines and most major airlines of other nationalities suspended their flights to Israel’s Ben-Gurion International Airport for several days after a missile landed approximately 1.5 km away. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions, including Egypt and Syria, have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary in order to meet our business partners face to face. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in such agreements. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military reserve service. Some of our employees, directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. -16- Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of most of our employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli labor courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company’s intellectual property). In the event that any of our employees chooses to leave and work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise our former employee obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that we would be harmed. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”). For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based upon our current and projected income, assets and activities, we do not believe that at this time we are a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as such in the future. Such classification may have significant tax consequences for U.S. Holders. One method that a U.S. Holder may use to avoid such tax consequences is making a “mark-to-market” election for each taxable year in which our company is a PFIC. For further explanation, including the definition of U.S. Holder, see Item 10E. “Additional Information - Taxation - United States Federal Income Taxation - Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” You are advised to consult with your own tax advisor regarding the particular tax consequences related to the ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares under your own particular factual circumstances. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore impact the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us or all or a significant portion of our assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. These laws may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of our company, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our company’s securities. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. Currently there is not a clear definition of the duty of fairness under Israeli law. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. -17- As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may also follow home country practice regarding, for example, the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or on its website, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 