Item 1A. Risk Factors Consumer Demands and Preferences As a manufacturer, distributor and retailer, our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Our success depends on our ability to identify product trends as well as to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demand in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to offer assortments of products that appeal to our customers or that we will satisfy changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, if consumers’ demand for single-use, disposable party goods were to diminish in favor of reusable products for environmental or other reasons, our sales could decline. We also sell certain licensed products that are in great demand for short time periods, making it difficult to project our inventory needs for these products. Accordingly, if: • we are unable to identify and respond to emerging trends; • we miscalculate either the market for the merchandise in our stores or our customers’ purchasing habits; or • consumer demand dramatically shifts away from disposable party supplies; our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be faced with significant excess inventory of some products and missed opportunities for other products, which would decrease our profitability. Competition The party goods industry is highly competitive. We compete with many other manufactures and distributors, including smaller, independent specialty manufacturers and divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors control licenses for widely recognized images, such as cartoon or motion picture characters, and have broader access to mass market retailers which could provide them with a competitive advantage. Our retail stores compete with a variety of smaller and larger retailers. Our stores compete, among other things, on the basis of location and store layout, product mix, customer convenience and price. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. Expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Raw Material and Production Costs The costs of our key raw materials (paper and petroleum-based resin) fluctuate. In general, we absorb movements in raw material costs we consider temporary or insignificant. However, cost increases that are considered other than temporary may require us to increase our prices to maintain our margins. Customers may resist such price increases. Products we manufacture, primarily tableware and metallic balloons, generally represent approximately 42% of our net sales at wholesale. We believe our ability to manufacture product representing approximately 42% of our sales enables us to lower production costs by optimizing production while minimizing inventory investment, to ensure product quality through rigid quality control procedures during production and to be responsive to our customers’ product design demands. Interest Rates Although we may utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage the risk associated with fluctuations in interest rates, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on a significant portion of our debt. 13 Table of Contents Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency risk principally from fluctuations in the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Canadian dollar and Chinese renminbi and their impact on our profitability in foreign markets. Although we periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the earnings effects of such fluctuations, we may not be able to hedge such risks completely or permanently. Economic Downturn In general, our retail sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, weather and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues and profitability will decline. In addition, our sales could be adversely affected by a downturn in the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Key Vendors While our retail divisions have historically purchased a significant portion of its other brand merchandise from a relatively small number of sources, we do not believe our retail business is dependent upon any single source of supply for these products. However, certain of these suppliers may control various product licenses for widely recognized images, such as cartoon or motion picture characters and the loss of such suppliers could materially adversely affect our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Many of our vendors currently provide us with incentives such as volume purchasing allowances and trade discounts. If our vendors were to reduce or discontinue these incentives, prices from our vendors could increase. Should we be unable to pass cost increases to consumers, our profitability would be reduced. Franchise Program Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to contract with and retain qualified franchisees, as well as the ability of those franchisees to operate their stores and promote and develop our store concept. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates independently. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will operate stores in a manner consistent with our concept and standards, which could reduce the gross revenues of these stores and therefore reduce our franchise revenue and possibly our wholesale sales. The closing of unprofitable stores or the failure of franchisees to comply with our policies could adversely affect our reputation as well as our revenues. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating income. If we are unable to attract new franchisees or to convince existing franchisees to open additional stores, any growth in royalties from franchised stores will depend solely upon increases in revenues at existing franchised stores. In addition, our ability to open additional franchise locations is limited by the territorial restrictions in our existing franchise agreements as well as our ability to identify additional markets in the United States that are not currently saturated with the products we offer. If we are unable to open additional franchise locations, we will have to sustain additional growth through acquisitions, opening new company-owned stores and by attracting new and repeat customers to our existing locations. If we are unable to do so, our revenues and operating income may decline. Additional Capital Requirements Our management currently believes that the cash generated by operations, together with the borrowing availability under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next twelve months, including investments made and expenses incurred in connection with technology to improve merchandising and distribution systems, support cost reduction initiatives, and improved efficiencies. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives to raise cash, such as incurring additional indebtedness, selling our assets, seeking to raise additional equity capital or restructuring. If adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, we may be unable to maintain, develop or enhance our operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, service our current debt costs, or respond to competitive pressures. 14 Table of Contents Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations Our retail business is subject to significant seasonal variations. Historically, our stores realized a significant portion of their revenues, net income and cash flow in the fourth quarter of the year, principally due to our Halloween sales in October and, to a lesser extent, due to our year-end holiday sales. We believe this general pattern will continue in the future. An economic downturn during this period could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if such downturn occurred at other times of the year. Our results of operations and cash flows may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, store closings and timing of the potential disposition and acquisition of stores. Key Personnel Our success depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our senior management team. The departure of senior officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key life insurance on any of our senior officers. As our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements in the past, our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future at costs that are favorable to us, or at all, could impair our ability to increase revenue, and our customers could experience lower levels of customer care. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 