Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment decision. If any of the circumstances described in these risk factors occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, in which case the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. If we are unable to integrate or achieve the objectives of our recent and future acquisitions, our overall business may suffer. Our business strategy depends on successfully integrating the recent acquisitions of the assets of the conferencing business of Sprint, which we acquired in June 2005; ECI, which we acquired in December 2004; Worldwide, which we acquired in August, 2004; Raindance and Intrado, which we expect to close in the second quarter of 2006 and any additional businesses we may acquire in the future. Acquiring additional businesses involves integration risks, including: • the diversion of management’s time and attention away from operating our business to acquisition and integration challenges; • the unanticipated loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the potential need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at businesses that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; 14 Table of Contents • the need to integrate each business’ accounting, information management, human resources, contract and intellectual property management and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and • our entry into markets or geographic areas where we may have limited or no experience. We may be unable to effectively integrate businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future without encountering the difficulties described above. Failure to integrate these businesses effectively could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to this integration risk, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to achieve the planned objectives of an acquisition. The inability to achieve our planned objectives could result from: • the financial underperformance of these acquisitions; • the loss of key clients of the acquired business; and • the occurrence of unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. If we are unable to complete future acquisitions, our business strategy and stock price may be negatively affected. Our ability to identify and take advantage of attractive acquisition or other business development opportunities is an important component in implementing our overall business strategy. We may be unable to identify, finance or complete acquisitions or to do so at attractive valuations. To the extent that the trading price of our common stock reflects the market’s expectation that we will continue to complete strategic acquisitions, the price of our common stock may drop if we are unable to complete these acquisitions. We may not be able to compete successfully in our highly competitive industries. We face significant competition in the markets in which we do business and expect that this competition will intensify. The principal competitive factors in our three business segments are technological expertise, service quality, capacity, industry-specific experience, range of service offerings, the ability to develop and implement customized products and services and the cost of services. In addition, we believe there has been an industry trend to move agent-based operations towards offshore sites. We believe this trend will continue. This movement could result in excess capacity in the United States, where most of our current capacity exists. The trend towards international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuous technological changes may bring new and different competitors into our markets and may erode profits because of reduced prices. Our competitors’ products and services and pricing practices, as well as the timing and circumstances of the entry of additional competitors into our markets, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Communication Services segment’s business and growth depends in large part on the industry trend toward outsourcing. This trend may not continue, or may continue at a slower pace, as organizations may elect to perform these services themselves. Our Conferencing Services segment faces technological advances and consolidation which have contributed to pricing pressures. Competition in the web and video conferencing services arenas continues to develop as new vendors enter the marketplace and offer a broader range of conferencing solutions. Our Receivables Management segment competes with a wide range of purchasers of charged-off consumer receivables, third-party collection agencies, other financial service companies and credit originators and other owners of debt that fully manage their own charged-off consumer receivables. Some of these companies have substantially greater personnel and financial resources than we do. In addition, companies with greater financial resources than we have may elect in the future to enter the consumer debt collection business. Competitive pressures affect the availability and pricing of receivables portfolios as well as the availability and cost of qualified debt collectors. 15 Table of Contents There are services in each of our business segments that are experiencing pricing declines. If we are unable to offset pricing declines through increased transaction volume and greater efficiency, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The United States Congress, the FCC, various states and other foreign jurisdictions have promulgated and enacted rules and laws that govern the methods and processes of making and completing telephone solicitations and sales and collecting of consumer debt. As a result, we may be subject to proceedings alleging violation of these rules and laws in the future. Additional rules and laws may require us to modify our operations or service offerings in order to meet our clients’ service requirements effectively, and these regulations may limit our activities or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We currently are not a provider of “telecommunications” under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Communications Act. Therefore, we are not subject to common carrier regulation under Title II of the Communications Act and are not required to pay the various fees and charges, including payments into the universal service fund, to which providers of telecommunications are subject. If the FCC or other relevant governmental body determines that the services we provide are telecommunications, or Congress passes new legislation affecting our regulatory obligations, we might be subject to greater regulatory oversight and required to incur additional fees and charges with respect to our services. In addition, regulatory restrictions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including reducing the volume of business that our clients outsource. Regulations regarding the use of technology, such as restrictions on automated dialers or the required transmittal of caller-identification information may further reduce the efficiency or effectiveness of our operations. We cannot predict the impact that federal, state and foreign regulations may have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our clients are also subject to varying degrees of government regulation, particularly in the telecommunications, insurance and financial services industries. We also may be subject to a variety of enforcement or private actions for our clients’ non-compliance with these regulations. Increased interest in data privacy protections and information security obligations could impose additional regulatory pressure on our clients’ businesses and, indirectly, on our operations. These pressures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition if they reduce the demand for our services or expose us to potential liability. Our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables may be limited under federal and state laws. Federal and state consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations extensively regulate the relationship between debt collectors and debtors. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit card issuers may preclude us from collecting on charged-off consumer receivables we purchase if the credit card issuer previously failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional or more stringent requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer receivables. Any new laws, rules or regulations as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws may adversely affect our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, federal and state governments are considering, and may consider in the future, other legislative proposals that would further regulate the collection of consumer receivables. Any failure to comply with any current or future laws applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize the use of our contact centers. Our profitability depends largely on how effectively we manage the use of our contact centers, which we refer to as capacity utilization. To the extent that we are not able to effectively utilize our contact centers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also consider opening new contact centers in order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects. However, additional centers may result in idle capacity until any new or expanded program is fully implemented. In addition, if we lose significant clients, if clients’ call volumes decline or if significant contracts are not implemented as anticipated, our operating results are likely to be harmed to the extent that we are not able to manage our call center capacity utilization by reducing expenses proportionally or successfully negotiating contracts with new clients to generate additional revenues at comparable levels. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain optimal contact center capacity in the future. Increases in the cost of voice and data services or significant interruptions in these services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on voice and data services provided by various telecommunications providers. Because of this dependence, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to the risks associated with rate fluctuations and service disruption by entering into long-term contracts. There is no obligation, however, for these vendors to renew their contracts with us or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and these contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. An adverse change in the pricing of voice and data services that we are unable to recover through the price of our services, or any significant interruption in voice or data services, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends on the experience and continuing efforts and abilities of our management team and on the management teams of our operating subsidiaries. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of our operations require specially trained employees. From time to time, we must recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate in order to keep pace with our clients’ demands and our resulting need for specially trained employees. If we are unable to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increases in labor costs and turnover rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Communication Services and Receivables Management segments are very labor intensive and experience high personnel turnover. Significant increases in the employee turnover rate could increase recruiting and training costs and decrease operating effectiveness and productivity. Moreover, many of our employees are hired on a part-time basis, and a significant portion of our costs consists of wages to hourly workers. As a result, increases in labor costs, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Because we have operations in countries outside of the United States, we may be subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting these countries that could result in increased operating expenses and regulation. We operate or rely upon businesses in numerous countries outside the United States. We may expand into additional countries and regions. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: political and economic conditions, exposure to currency fluctuations, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potential adverse tax consequences. If we cannot manage our international operations successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A large portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more key clients would result in the loss of net revenues. Our 100 largest clients represented 63% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 with one client, Cingular, accounting for 12% of our total revenue. Subject to advance notice requirements and a specified wind down of purchases, Cingular may terminate its contract with us with or without cause at any time. If we fail to retain a significant amount of business from Cingular or any of our other significant clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We serve clients and industries that have experienced a significant level of consolidation in recent years. Additional consolidation could occur in which our clients could be acquired by companies that do not use our services. The loss of any significant client would result in a decrease in our revenues and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The financial results of our Receivables Management segment depend on our ability to purchase charged-off receivable portfolios on acceptable terms and in sufficient amounts. If we are unable to do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to purchase charged-off consumer receivables from credit originators and other debt sellers on acceptable terms and in sufficient amounts, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The availability of portfolios that generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors both within and beyond our control, including: • competition from other buyers of consumer receivable portfolios; • continued sales of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios by credit originators; • continued growth in the number of industries selling charged-off consumer receivable portfolios; and • our ability to collect upon a sufficient percentage of accounts to satisfy our contractual obligations. Because of the length of time involved in collecting charged-off consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner. In our Receivables Management segment, we entered into a number of forward-flow contracts during 2005. These contracts commit a third party to sell to us regularly, and commit us to purchase regularly, charged-off receivable portfolios for a fixed percentage of their face amount. Consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if the fixed percentage price is higher than the market price we would have paid absent the forward flow commitment. We plan to enter into similar contracts in the future, depending on market conditions. To the extent new or existing competitors enter into similar forward-flow arrangements, the pool of portfolios available for purchase may be diminished. 18 Table of Contents Our contracts are generally not exclusive and generally do not provide revenue commitments. We seek to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However, our contracts generally enable the clients to unilaterally terminate the contract or reduce transaction volumes upon written notice and without penalty. The terms of these contracts are often also subject to renegotiation at any time. In addition, most of our contracts are not exclusive and do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenue. Many of our clients also retain multiple service providers with whom we must compete. As a result, the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of a program. Our data and contact centers are exposed to emergency interruption. Our outsourcing operations depend on our ability to protect our data and contact centers against damage that may be caused by fire, natural disasters, power failure, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, failures of our software, acts of sabotage or terror and other emergencies. In the past, natural disasters such as hurricanes have provided significant employee dislocation and turnover in the areas impacted. If we experience temporary or permanent employee dislocation or interruption at one or more of our data or contact centers through casualty, operating malfunction or other acts, we may be unable to provide the services we are contractually obligated to deliver. As a result, we may experience a reduction in revenue or be required to pay contractual damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Any interruptions of this type could result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide our services to our clients, and our business interruption and property insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur. These interruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of terrorism or war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acts of terrorism or war could disrupt our operations. For example, our agent-based business may experience significant reductions in call volume during and following any significant terrorist event. These disruptions could also cause service interruptions or reduce the quality level of the services we provide, resulting in a reduction in our revenues. In addition, an economic downturn as a result of these activities could negatively impact the financial condition of our clients, which may cause our clients to delay or defer decisions to use our services or decide to use fewer of our services. As a result, war and terrorist attacks and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security and privacy breaches of the systems we use to protect personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our databases contain personal data of our clients’ customers, including credit card and healthcare information. Any security or privacy breach of these databases could expose us to liability, increase our expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches and deter our clients from selecting our services. Our data security procedures may not effectively counter evolving security risks or address the security and privacy concerns of existing or potential clients. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary information or technology. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary information and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and contract protection to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our information and technology. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our patents, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The steps we have taken to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information and technology or client data may be insufficient to protect us, and we may be unable to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or 19 Table of Contents may derive from our proprietary rights. In addition, because we operate in many foreign jurisdictions, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or others. Our technology and services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have asserted in the past and may, in the future, assert claims against us alleging that we are violating or infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent, license alternative technology from another party or reduce or modify our product and service offerings. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Our business depends on our ability to keep pace with our clients’ needs for rapid technological change and systems availability. Technology is a critical component of our business. We have invested in sophisticated and specialized computer and telephone technology and we anticipate that it will be necessary for us to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to remain competitive. Our future success depends in part on our ability to continue to develop technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Gary L. West and Mary E. West have substantial control over us and will maintain the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2005, Gary L. West, our Chairman, and Mary E. West, the Vice Chair of our Board of Directors and Secretary, beneficially owned approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. and Mrs. West have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that our stockholders can act by means of a written consent without a meeting and without prior notice. Therefore, any stockholder or stockholders (including Mr. and Mrs. West) holding the requisite number of shares that would be necessary to take action at a stockholders’ meeting can take action without prior notice to the other stockholders and without a vote at a stockholders’ meeting. The interests of Mr. and Mrs. West may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. Additionally, as a result of Mr. and Mrs. West’s significant ownership of our outstanding common stock, we have relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the Nasdaq National Market Corporate Governance Rules, and therefore, our Board of Directors is not comprised of a majority of independent directors and we do not have a nominating committee. Accordingly, so long as we rely on that exemption, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq National Market Corporate Governance Rules. Pending and future litigation may divert management’s time and attention and result in substantial costs of defense damages or settlement, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face uncertainties relating to the pending litigation described in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and we may not ultimately prevail or otherwise be able to satisfactorily resolve this litigation. In addition, other material suits by individuals or certified classes, claims, or investigations relating to the same or similar matters as those described in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” or other aspects of our business, including our obligations to market additional products to our clients’ customers, which we refer to as upselling, may arise in the future. Regardless of the outcome of any of these lawsuits or any future actions, claims or investigations relating to the same or any other subject matter, we may incur substantial defense costs and these actions may cause a diversion of management’s time and attention. Also, 20 Table of Contents we may be required to alter our business practices or pay substantial damages or settlement costs as a result of these proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly or make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. As of December 31, 2005, we had 69,718,875 shares of common stock outstanding. Gary L. West and Mary E. West have 5,000,000 shares registered but not sold pursuant to a registration statement filed. In addition, Gary L. West and Mary E. West have the right to require us to effect three additional registrations of their shares of common stock and they have “piggyback” registration rights whenever we propose to register our common stock under the Securities Act. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price for our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The trading of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly during the past several years and may continue to do so in the future. The volatility of our stock price is exacerbated by relatively low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors or events, including among other things: • the depth and liquidity of the trading market of the common stock; • quarterly variations in actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industries in which we compete; • announcements by competitors; • the loss of a significant client or a significant change in our relationships with a significant client; • regulatory and litigation developments; and • general economic conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you purchased it at. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Since we have been a publicly traded company, we have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. In addition, the payment of cash dividends is restricted by the covenants in our credit facility and our synthetic lease. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain on your investment for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 