Risk Factors We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the United States. Approximately 38 percent of our revenues in 2005 were outside of the U.S. Future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include changes in political, economic and social environments, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, as well as U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. In addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. Additionally, cash generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to transfer to the U.S. in a tax-efficient manner. An inability to anticipate changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. Developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. General economic, business or industry conditions may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global industrial production. As economic activity slows down, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, resulting in decreased demand for our products. If this occurs, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. Information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. We are in the process of introducing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures, and a common information system over a period of several years. As we implement the ERP system, the new system may not perform as expected. This could have an adverse effect on our business. The global industrial automation power, control and information products and services industry is highly competitive. We face strong competition in all of our market segments. Price competition in our various industries is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. We expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 7 Table of Contents The growth of our Control Systems solutions offerings may create additional risks. Risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficient execution of projects, and the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. Our inability to control, manage, and mitigate these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. Natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations could harm our business. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers, or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or could disrupt our supply chain. The inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. We own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. The loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. In addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We sometimes provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. Indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. Future legislation or regulations intended to reform the funding and reporting of pension benefit plans could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, as could changes in market conditions that impact the assumptions we use to measure our liabilities under these plans. Legislators and agencies of the U.S. government have proposed legislation and regulations to amend, restrict or eliminate various features of, and mandate additional funding of, pension benefit plans. If legislation or new regulations are adopted, we may be required to contribute additional cash to these plans, in excess of our current estimates. Market volatility in interest rates, investment returns and other factors could also adversely affect the funded status of our pension plans. Moreover, future changes to the accounting and reporting standards related to pension plans could create significant volatility in our operating results. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current and divested businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. In connection with the divestiture of certain businesses in prior years, we retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before the divestitures. As a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with those divested businesses. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and 8 Table of Contents administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. Potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could adversely affect our business. Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products many years ago. The uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate resolution thereof. Potential liabilities and costs relating to environmental remediation could adversely affect our business. Our operations, both in the United States and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. Our financial responsibility for the cleanup or other remediation of contaminated property or for natural resource damages can extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties currently owned and used by us, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. We have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be in the future as well, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. Risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. We have acquired, and anticipate continuing to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties integrating the acquired company, retaining the acquired business’ customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings, and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames, if at all; • loss of key employees of the acquired business; • implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt, dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions. A disruption to our distribution channel could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In North America, approximately 75 percent of our sales are through a limited number of third party distributors. While we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A disruption could be caused by the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of the distributor, or other unforeseen events. 9 Table of Contents Our reliance on third party suppliers creates certain risks and uncertainties. Our manufacturing processes require that we purchase a high volume of equipment, components and materials from third party suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: • the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates and other factors; • poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; and • a shortage of components or materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could reduce sales and profitability. Any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. We also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternative suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a possible loss of revenues. Available Information We maintain an Internet site at http://www.rockwellautomation.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Guidelines on Corporate Governance and charters for our Board Committees are also available at our Internet site. These Guidelines and charters are also available in print to any shareowner upon request. The information contained on and linked from our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are included as Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and were included as Exhibits to each of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC during 2005. Our Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on March 2, 2005, pursuant to Section 303A.12 of the NYSE’s listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as of that date. 