ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our New Business Strategy is Unproven In 2008, we significantly reorganized our business to reflect our business strategy to increase the focus on our offshore delivery business and to become a “pure-play” IT/IT enabled operations business. After these changes, iGATE was left with only service offerings that include Information Technology and IT enabled operations, offshore outsourcing solutions and services to large and medium-sized organizations using an offshore/onsite model. In the judgment of the Board of Directors, the Company will provide greater value to its shareholders as a focused IT and IT enabled outsourcing company, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to profitably manage the iGS segment as a standalone business. In particular, the Company’s professional services business, which was spun off at the end of the third quarter of 2008, historically provided the Company with substantial free cash flow. We cannot be certain that this standalone strategy will improve our performance, and it is possible that the strategy will detract from our performance. Difficulties in Providing Expanded Service Options We have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements by extending the breadth of the IT / BPO services we offer. The success of some of our newer service offerings, such as operations and business process consulting, IT consulting, business process management, systems integration and infrastructure management, depends in part, upon continued demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. Our ability to effectively offer a wider breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to these service offerings. To obtain engagements for our end-to-end solutions, we are competing with large, well-established international consulting firms as well as other India-based technology services companies, resulting in increased competition and marketing costs. Accordingly, our new service offerings may not effectively meet client needs and we may be unable to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex client projects. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients and potentially with other technology service providers and vendors, and require a more thorough understanding of our clients’ operations. Our ability to establish these relationships will depend on a number of factors including the proficiency of our technology professionals and our management personnel. Larger projects often involve multiple components, engagements or stages, and a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally, as opposed to factors related to the quality of our services. Cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and resource planning inaccuracies may have a negative impact on our profitability. 4 Table of Contents Intense Competition in the IT and Offshore Outsourcing Services Industries The IT and offshore outsourcing services industries are highly competitive and served by numerous global, national, regional and local firms. Primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including the major consulting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, India based offshore outsourcing services, applications software firms, service groups of computer equipment companies, specialized interest consulting firms, programming companies and temporary staffing firms. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have. There are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets and we may face additional competition from new competitors who are more powerful and companies who provide different services. This increase in competition may result in lower prices, higher cost of resources and thus lower profitability. In addition, there is a risk that clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their applications solutions needs. Further, the IT services industry is undergoing consolidation, which may result in increasing pressure on margins. These factors may limit our ability to increase prices commensurate with increases in compensation. There can be no assurance that we will compete successfully with existing or new competitors in the IT and offshore outsourcing services markets. Rapid Technological Change; Dependence on New Solutions The IT and offshore outsourcing services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with industry developments. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies, breadth and depth of process and technology expertise, service quality, knowledge of industry, marketing and sales capabilities. Our failure to hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to remain competitive will also be dependent on our ability to design and implement, in a timely and cost-effective manner, effective transition strategies for clients moving to advanced architectures. Our failure to design and implement such transition strategies in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risk of Preferred Vendor Contracts We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large or medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally result in lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Concentration of Revenues Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the United States, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. Economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. In the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 56% of our revenues were derived from customers located in the United States. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of clients. Our five largest clients represented approximately 61%, 55% and 50% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Consequently, if our top clients reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the financial services or other industry segments on which we focus may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Risks Associated with Termination Most of our projects are terminable by the client without penalty. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require us to maintain or terminate a significant number of unassigned IT professionals, resulting in a higher number of unassigned IT professionals and/or significant termination expenses. The loss of any significant client or project could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Negative Economic Conditions in the United States and Abroad A majority of our revenues is from clients located in the United States. Due to the current economic downturn, there is decreased economic activity in the United States. The trend of slowdown is also impacting most of the major economies in the world where we have our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our clients. As the economic downturn progresses, companies may be forced to reduce their information technology outsourcing budgets. Weak economic conditions and reduced outsourcing budgets may adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenues. Risks Related to Inability to Acquire Additional Businesses We plan to continue to expand our operations gradually through the acquisition of, or investment in, additional businesses and companies in order to seek opportunities to add or enhance the services, to enter into new markets or to strengthen our global presence. We may be unable to identify businesses that complement our strategy for growth. If we do succeed in identifying a company with such a business, we may not be able to proceed to acquire the company, its relevant business or an interest in the company for many reasons, including: • a failure to agree on the terms of the acquisition or investment; • incompatibility between the Company and the management of the company which we wish to acquire or invest; • competition from other potential acquirers; • a lack of capital to make the acquisition or investment; and • the unwillingness of the company to partner with us. If we are unable to continue acquiring and investing in attractive businesses, our strategy for growth may not succeed. Risks Related to Acquisitions There can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. 6 Table of Contents Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances and legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets, risk that business we acquire may lose customers, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Client satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired firm could have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquired businesses, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Our failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Potential U.S Regulation of Offshore Outsourcing Some U.S. states have enacted legislation restricting government agencies from outsourcing their back office processes and Information Technology solutions work to companies outside the United States. It is also possible that U.S. private sector companies that work with these states may be restricted from outsourcing their work related to government contracts. We currently do not have significant contracts with U.S. federal or state government entities; however, there can be no assurance that these restrictions will not extend to private companies, such as our clients. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing may adversely impact our ability to do business in the United States, particularly if these changes are widespread. Variability of Quarterly Operating Results The revenues and operating results are subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates and the mix of time-and-material projects versus proportional performance and maintenance projects during the quarter. We recognize revenues on time-and-material projects as the services are performed, while revenues on proportional performance projects are recognized using the proportional performance method. Certain contracts with no stated deliverables, with a designated workforce assigned, recognize revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Although proportional performance projects have not contributed significantly to revenues and profitability to date, operating results may be adversely affected in the future by cost overruns on proportional performance projects. Because a high percentage of the expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. Additionally, periodically our cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in infrastructure in anticipation of future opportunities for revenue growth. Risks of International Operations We have international operations in twelve countries. Our international IT and IT enabled outsourcing development depend greatly upon business immigration and technology transfer laws in those countries, and upon the continued development of technology infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our international operations will be profitable or support our growth strategy. The risks inherent in our international business activities include: • unexpected changes in regulatory environments or failure to adhere to regulations that govern our client’s businesses; • foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in managing international operations; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. 7 Table of Contents Our failure to manage growth, attract and retain personnel, manage major development efforts, profitably deliver services, or a significant interruption of our ability to transmit data via satellite, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to successfully maintain and develop our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Market Price of our Shares may Continue to be Volatile The market price of our shares may continue to be unstable or unpredictable due to market conditions and other factors some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting market price of our shares are: • Fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • Loss of one or more significant clients; • Loss of one or more key management personnel; • Natural disasters or any other events effecting the countries where we or our clients have operations; and • Changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts. Concentration of Ownership in Founders Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, co-founders of iGATE, own approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi together have sufficient voting power to elect all the members of the Board of Directors and to effect transactions without the approval of our other public shareholders, except for those limited transactions that require a supermajority vote under our bylaws or articles of incorporation. The interests of Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi may from time to time diverge from our interests. Our Audit Committee consists of independent directors and addresses certain potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise between us and our directors, officers or our other affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Impairment Analysis May Lead to Recognition of Losses The carrying amount of the goodwill on our balance sheet was $29.2 million as of December 31, 2008. We periodically assess the potential impairment of our long-lived assets, such as goodwill, as appropriate. If, as a result of such an assessment, we were to determine that the carrying amount of this goodwill was not recoverable, we would reduce the carrying amount in the period in which the determination was made. Any reduction would result in the recognition of a one-time impairment loss, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results in the period in which the loss was recognized. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Rights Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Although we believe that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, we are subject to the 8 Table of Contents risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any claims, whether or not meritorious, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause significant installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; and/or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or may not be available at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fixed-Price Projects We undertake certain projects billed on a fixed-price basis. We recognize revenue from these contracts on a proportional performance basis, which is different from our principal method of billing, the time-and-material basis. Failure to accurately estimate the resources or time required to complete a fixed price project or to maintain the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in cost due to increase in employee cost, office space cost, technology cost or failure to complete such projects within budget would expose us to risks associated with cost overruns. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Recruitment and Retention of IT Professionals Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled IT employees, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a sufficient number of skilled IT professionals and project managers who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified IT professionals will be available to us in sufficient numbers, or that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Failure to attract or retain qualified IT professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have done much of our recruiting outside of the countries where the client work is performed. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant employee attrition. Exposure to Regulatory and General Economic Conditions in India Our subsidiary iGATE Global Solutions (“iGS”) utilizes offshore software development centers based in Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Noida, India. iGS also operates recruiting and training centers in India. The Indian government exerts significant influence over its economy. In the recent past, the Indian government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in certain sectors of the economy, including the technology industry. Certain of these benefits that directly affect us include, among others, tax holidays (temporary exemptions from taxation on operating income), liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. To be eligible for certain of these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions. A failure to meet such conditions in the future could result in the cancellation of the benefits. There can be no assurance that such tax benefits will be continued in the future and also it is not clear whether new tax policies will provide equivalent benefits and incentives. Any new tax legislation and the results of actions by taxing authorities may have adverse effect on our operations and our overall tax rate. 9 Table of Contents Increase in Wages of our Employees Salaries and other related benefits constitute a major portion of our total cost. Most of our employees are based in India and our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India or other countries where we have our operations may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Dependence on Senior Leadership Team Our success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Phaneesh Murthy and senior management team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. Although each executive has entered into employment agreements containing non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants, these contracts do not guarantee that they will continue their employment with us or that such covenants will be enforceable. If we lose service of any of the key executives, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations and meet our ongoing and future business challenges and this may have material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Potential Liability to Clients Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information of the client. We are often required to collect and store sensitive and confidential data of the client to perform the services under the contract. If any of our current or former employees misappropriates client’s sensitive or confidential data or if we do not adapt to latest changes in the data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liability to our clients. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 