ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As described in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, a proposal to terminate the plan of liquidation was approved at the special meeting on November 8, 2007. There are significant risks associated with terminating the plan of liquidation and pursuing alternative growth strategies. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: 2 We may be confronted by significant challenges as we attempt to grow our operations. If the merger with Pernix Therapeutics, Inc. and the merger-related proposals in the proxy statement we have submitted to our shareholders in connection with the merger are not approved by our shareholders, we will continue to seek to grow within areas of historical expertise and areas that our management considers to be of logical interest, but will also pursue acquisitions and other business combinations. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could evaluate and pursue, our ability to consummate a transaction may be limited by our available financial resources. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We may also issue shares of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities to complete a business combination. We may grant options or other equity awards to our new management or the management of a target business in a business combination, both of which would reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders and could cause a change in control. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or otherwise expand our business will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, all of whom joined us following the termination of the plan of liquidation, or those who would prospectively join in conjunction with a business combination. Finally, our financial resources may initially dictate that we will only be able to complete one business combination or growth initiative, which will cause us to be increasingly dependent on a single business and its products or services. In this case, we may not be able to satisfactorily diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities, which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Our ability to utilize NOLs to offset future taxable income will be reduced significantly, or eliminated, as a result of the proposed merger with Pernix Therapeutics, Inc. This reduction may be greater in this merger than for other possible combinations. We currently have approximately $85 million in federal income tax net operating losses (NOLs). How much a combination like a merger reduces the ability to utilize NOLs to offset future taxes varies depending on the businesses, assets and share ownership of the of the combining companies and transaction terms. We believe the reduction in our ability to utilize NOLs to reduce future taxable income will be greater in connection with this proposed merger than would be the case with some possible alternative combinations. The factors that will affect the reduction in our ability to utilize our NOLs to reduce future taxes are (i) whether a 50% or greater change in ownership by current 5% stockholders occurs (ii) whether the percentage of total assets consisting of assets not used in the business exceeds 33-1/3% and (iii) whether the combined company continues to operate GTA's historical business for at least two years. The reasons we believe these factors will result in substantial reduction of the combined company's ability to utilize GTA's NOLs, and the probable amounts of such reductions, are described in our proxy statement relating to the Special Meeting of Stockholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2010. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock has historically been relatively low and is likely to continue to be low. As a result of this relatively low trading volume, our stock price can be highly volatile. Any large sales could have a negative effect on our stock price and its volatility. If we cease to meet NYSE Amex listing standards in the future, the NYSE Amex could delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to complete transactions in our securities and cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex. The delisting of our common stock from trading on the NYSE Amex could have adverse consequences, including a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock, a reduction in the amount of news coverage for us, a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future, reduced attractiveness as a business combination partner, and a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 3 If we are unable to retain certain key executives, our financial results may be negatively impacted, as well as our ability to remain a timely filer. Our ability to continuously maintain operations depends to a large extent on the experience and ability of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael C. Pearce. We believe that a loss of Mr. Pearce’s services could materially harm our ability to maximize existing assets and develop avenues for expansion. We are highly dependent on the services of Tracy S. Clifford, our Chief Financial Officer. If Ms. Clifford were to resign, we would likely seek to hire a replacement for her, the cost of which would depend on our determination of the experience and skills that must be possessed by her replacement in light of our financial condition, our assets, and the complexity of any issues bearing on us at that time. If we are unable to retain these two key executives, ordinary business operations and regulatory compliance timeliness may be jeopardized. Additionally, we anticipate that if we do not complete the proposed merger, our ability to retain these two key employees, and attract new, valuable employees, may be further hindered. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 