Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Shares The price of our shares is highly volatile, and if we do not maintain compliance with NASDAQ minimum share price requirements or other listing requirements, we may be delisted. As a small capitalization medical device company, the price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, introduction of new products, delays in the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors, acquisition or loss of significant customers, partners, distributors and suppliers, changes in earnings estimates or our ratings by analysts, regulatory developments, or fluctuations in the economy or general market conditions, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate substantially. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common shares will not decline below its current price or that it will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. Currently our common shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol "WHRT". We must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain the NASDAQ Capital Market quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. During 2008, we received notices from The NASDAQ Stock Market stating non-compliance with various listing maintenance requirements such as (i) the notice dated March 31, 2008 regarding Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3) which requires us to have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years, (ii) the notice dated April 30, 2008 regarding Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4), which requires us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1 per share, and (iii) the notices dated June 25, 2008 and October 29, 2008 regarding Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(7)(A), which requires us to maintain a minimum of 500,000 publicly held shares and a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $1,000,000. To date, we have regained compliance with all minimum listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and all matters have been closed with NASDAQ. We have had difficulties maintaining compliance in the past and there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with all minimum listing requirements in the future. If we do not meet NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, including maintaining a per share price of at least $1, NASDAQ may take action to delist our common shares. A delisting of our common shares could negatively impact us by reducing the 18 Table of Contents liquidity and market price of our common shares and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common shares. The sales of common shares by our shareholders could depress the price of our common shares. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, the market price of our common shares could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. All of the common shares we issued in the private placement in July, 2008 have been registered pursuant to a resale registration statement. We have also previously registered for resale shares issued in connection with prior private placements completed in 2006 and 2005. Sales by these shareholders could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common shares. The concentration of our capital stock ownership, following the completion of the recent private placement, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our common shares are held by a relatively small number of investors. After the completion of our $30.0 million private placement financing in July 2008, four of our largest shareholders collectively beneficially own approximately 96% of our common shares. These investors also have certain rights to designate members of our Board of Directors and may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including elections of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Corporation or our assets for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our shareholders do not view as beneficial. Inquiries or proceedings regarding the Company's stock option granting practices may be disruptive. We have been the subject of an inquiry from the Ontario Securities Commission ("OSC") relating to our historical option granting practices in the past. We, and our current and former directors and officers, may become the subject of government inquiries, shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits and other legal proceedings relating to our historical option granting practices in the future. Should any of these events occur, they could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our common shares, our shareholders will not be able to receive a return on their common shares unless the value of our common shares appreciates and they sell them. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common shares and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. As a result, our shareholders will not be able to receive a return on their common shares unless the value of our common shares appreciates and they sell them. 