ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as the discussion in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained herein, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. Uncertain Global Economic Conditions may continue to adversely affect demand for our services. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for information technology services in the markets in which we operate. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates. The global economic downturn in recent years has reduced, and may further reduce, demand for our services and has also caused clients to request additional price concessions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently the results of our operations and stock price. Risks posed by climate change may materially increase our compliance costs and adversely impact our profitability. Climate change vulnerability is posing new threats and opportunities in the economy. Climate change and measures adopted to address it can affect us, our clients and suppliers in myriad ways, depending on the nature and location of the businesses, the near-term capital expenditure needs, the regulatory environments where they operate and their strategic plans. Generally, climate risks and opportunities for companies and their investors fall into four categories: • Physical risk from climate change • Regulatory risks and opportunities related to existing or proposed green house gas (“GHG”) emissions limits • Indirect regulatory risks and opportunities related to products or services from high emitting companies • Litigation risks for emitters of greenhouse gases Unmitigated climate change is likely to have severe physical impacts on companies with exposed assets or business operations including iGATE. Major environmental risks and liabilities can significantly impact future earnings. iGATE is committed to establish itself as climate responsible organization which conducts its business in a sustainable fashion so as to optimize resources and energy utilization. We ultimately wish to achieve carbon neutrality and position ourselves in a low carbon growth path. As the first step of strategizing our action plan for climate change mitigation, we have undertaken carbon footprint estimation study which determines the GHG inventory covering all the facilities. Beginning in 2008, we began estimating our carbon footprint and GHG emissions, which are audited. For 2008, the overall GHG inventory stood at 28,434 tCO2 and the GHG emission intensity was 4.23 tCO2/ employee. The current year review is in progress. iGATE’s GHG emission intensity is one of the lowest among major Indian IT corporations which we expect to limit our litigation and regulatory risk. To the extent iGATE is unable to comply with applicable regulations related to climate change, and such failure to comply results in material increases in compliance costs or litigation expenses, those costs or expenses will have an adverse effect on our profitability. 8 If our clients are adversely affected by climate change or related compliance costs, this may reduce their spending and demand for our services, leading to a decrease in revenue. In addition to emissions and climate change risks posed directly to iGATE, iGATE also has clients in varied industries such as financial services, insurance, banking, manufacturing, retail, media and entertainment and healthcare, among others. Some of the clients may be significantly affected by the climate change resulting in greater physical risk and impacting their operations. This may lead to a reduction of demand and loss of business from such clients, which would impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Potential U.S. regulation of offshore outsourcing may increase compliance costs and adversely impact our ability to do business in the U.S. Some U.S. states have enacted legislation restricting government agencies from outsourcing their back office processes and IT solutions work to companies outside the United States. It is also possible that U.S. private sector companies that work with these states may be restricted from outsourcing their work related to government contracts. We currently do not have significant contracts with U.S. federal or state government entities; however, there can be no assurance that these restrictions will not extend to private companies, such as our clients. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing may adversely impact our ability to do business in the United States, particularly if these changes are widespread. International immigration and work permit laws may adversely affect our ability to deploy our workforce and provide services in accordance with our Global Delivery Model. We have international operations in sixteen countries and recruit professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration and work permit/visa laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate. As of December 31, 2009, 1,087 IT professionals, representing approximately 15.7% of our worldwide workforce are providing services under work permits/visas. Our inability to obtain sufficient work permits/visas on time due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit/visa regulations in particular jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our business in effectively utilizing our Global Delivery Model and therefore impacting our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Government taxation in India (including the failure to extend certain tax holidays could reduce our overall profitability). iGS is an export-oriented company which, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, is entitled to claim tax holiday for a period of ten consecutive years for each of the business unit in Software Technology Park (“STP”) with respect to export profits. Substantially all of the earnings of iGS are attributable to export profits. The majority of our STP units in India are currently entitled to a 100% exemption from Indian income tax and these tax holidays will be completely phased out by March 31, 2011. Under current Indian tax law, export profits after March 31, 2011 from our existing STP units will be fully taxable at the Indian statutory rate (33.99% as of December 31, 2009) in effect at such time. If the tax holidays relating to our Indian STP units are not extended or new tax incentives are not introduced that would effectively extend the income tax holiday benefits beyond March 31, 2011, we expect that our effective income tax rate would increase significantly beginning in calendar year 2011. In anticipation of the complete phase out of the tax holidays on March 31, 2011, we expect to continue to locate a portion of our new development centers in areas designated as Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”). Development centers operating in SEZs will be entitled to certain income tax incentives for periods of up to 15 years. The Indian government has proposed certain interpretive positions regarding the tax incentives applicable to SEZs and has discussed making further changes in the SEZ policies which could be adverse to our operations. Certain of our development centers currently operate in SEZs and many of our future planned development 9 centers are likely to operate in SEZs. A change in the Indian government’s policies affecting SEZs in a manner that adversely impacts the incentives for establishing and operating facilities in SEZs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Government taxation in various countries may reduce our profitability. The tax laws in various countries undergo constant changes which impact corporate businesses and profitability depending on the proposals. The current tax proposals in the U.S. and India may have an adverse impact if the existing tax incentives or tax credits are removed. For instance, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, we can take the credit of the Minimum Alternate Tax (“MAT”) paid on the book profits in those years where there is no taxable income, by carrying forward to adjust it in the future period. Any future inability to use the MAT credit and carry forward of the unutilized credit as on date may significantly affect the profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2009, based on the existing tax laws, we have $7.5 of MAT credit available for carry forward. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm’s-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arm’s-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, we may incur increased tax liability, including interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income, financial condition and cash flows. Wage increases in India and other countries where our competitive advantage is related to lower wage costs may adversely affect our cost structure. We have a significant offshore presence in India where a majority of our technical professionals are located. In the past, the Indian economy has experienced many of the problems confronting the economies of developing countries, including high inflation and varying gross domestic product growth. Salaries and other related benefits constitute a major portion of our total cost. Most of our employees are based in India where our wage costs have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India or other countries where we have our operations may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins and cash flows. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Changes in tax law may require us to repatriate foreign earnings, increasing our effective tax rate and reducing profitability Effective January 1, 2002, pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, “Accounting for Income Taxes-Special Areas,” (ASC Topic 740) we no longer accrue incremental U.S. taxes on all Indian earnings recognized in 2002 and subsequent periods as these earnings (as well as other foreign earnings for all 10 periods) are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings. If we change our intent and repatriate such earnings, we will incur a dividend distribution tax for distribution from India, currently 17% under Indian tax law, and be required to pay United States corporate income taxes on such earnings which will be at a substantially a higher rate than our effective income tax rate in 2009. These potential increased taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our international operations subject us to increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have international operations in sixteen countries and as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Transactions in currencies other than U.S. dollars (“USD”) subject us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the USD and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The exchange rate between the USD and other currencies has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in USD for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in other currencies such as Indian Rupees, Canadian dollars (“CAD”), Mexican Pesos, Australian dollars, British Pound (“GBP”), Euros, and Japanese Yen. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected if other currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar and an effective foreign exchange hedging program is not in place. Hedging strategies, such as forward contracts and options related to transaction exposures that we have implemented or may implement to mitigate this risk may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Our international operations subject us to increased regulatory risks as well as difficulties in managing international operations. We have international operations in sixteen countries. Our international IT and IT-enabled outsourcing development depend greatly upon business immigration and technology transfer laws in those countries, and upon the continued development of technology infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our international operations will be profitable or support our growth strategy. The risks inherent in our international business activities include: • unexpected changes in regulatory environments or failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses; • foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in managing international operations; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to manage growth, attract and retain personnel, manage major development efforts, profitably deliver services, or a significant interruption of our ability to transmit data via satellite, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to successfully maintain and develop our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 11 Our business could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate and respond to technology advances in our industry and our clients’ industries. The IT and offshore outsourcing services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with industry developments. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies, breadth and depth of process and technology expertise, service quality, knowledge of industry, marketing and sales capabilities. Our failure to hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to remain competitive will also be dependent on our ability to design and implement, in a timely and cost-effective manner, effective transition strategies for clients moving to advanced architectures. Our failure to design and implement such transition strategies in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. An inability to recruit and retain IT professionals will adversely affect our ability to deliver our services. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled IT employees, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a sufficient number of skilled IT professionals and project managers who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified IT professionals will be available to us in sufficient numbers, or that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Failure to attract or retain qualified IT professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Historically, we have done much of our recruiting outside of the countries where the client work is located. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant employee attrition. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if the Company does not protect its intellectual property or if the Company’s services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. 12 Although we believe that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, we are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any claims, whether or not meritorious, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause significant installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; and/or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or may not be available at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our concentration of revenues in a limited number of clients may reduce revenues if these clients decrease their IT spending significantly. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the North American region, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. Economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. In the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 79.2% of our revenues were derived from customers located in the North American region. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of clients. Our five largest clients represented approximately 70%, 61% and 55% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Consequently, if our top clients reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the financial services or other industry segments on which we focus may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Our preferred vendor contracts may result in lower pricing for our services. We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large or medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally result in lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Early or unanticipated termination of client projects may result in a decrease in profitability if we have a higher number of unassigned IT professionals. Most of our projects are terminable by the client without penalty. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require us to maintain or terminate a significant number of unassigned IT professionals, resulting in a higher number of unassigned IT professionals and/or significant termination expenses. The loss of any significant client or project could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 13 Continued pricing pressures may reduce our revenues. We market our service offerings to large and medium-sized organizations. Generally, the pricing for the projects depends on the type of contract: • Fixed Price Contracts—Contracts based upon deliverables and/or achieving of project milestones, pricing is based on a fixed price. • Time and Material Contracts—Contract payments are based on the number of consultant hours worked on the project. • AMO Contracts—Contracts with no stated deliverables and having a designated workforce, the pricing is based on fixed periodic payments. • Some process outsourcing contracts provide pricing per transaction. Customers typically have the right to cancel contracts with minimal notice. Contracts with deliverables or project milestones can provide for certain penalties if the deliverables or project milestones are not met within contract timelines. The intense competition and the changes in the general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain services or provide services that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results and cash flows. Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle software products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain services. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our services or changes in customer demand, our revenues and cash flows could decrease. If we do not accurately estimate the resources necessary to complete fixed-price projects, our costs may increase significantly for those projects, which would adversely impact profitability. Fixed-price contracts may also commit us to unfavorable terms, which could impact profitability. We undertake some projects billed on a fixed-price basis. We recognize revenue from these contracts on a proportional performance basis, which is different from our principal method of billing, the time-and-material basis. Failure to accurately estimate the resources or time required to complete a fixed price project or to maintain the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in cost due to increase in employee cost or failure to complete such projects within budget would expose us to risks associated with cost overruns. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant variations. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates and the mix of time-and-material projects versus fixed price deliverable projects and maintenance projects during the quarter. We recognize revenues on time-and-material projects as the services are performed, while revenues on fixed price deliverable projects are recognized using the proportional performance method. Contracts with no stated deliverables, with a designated workforce assigned, recognize revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Although fixed price deliverable projects have not contributed significantly to revenues and profitability 14 to date, operating results may be adversely affected in the future by cost overruns on fixed price deliverable projects. Because a high percentage of the expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. Additionally, periodically our cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in infrastructure in anticipation of future opportunities for revenue growth. If we are unable to acquire and effectively integrate additional businesses, we may not be able to execute our growth strategy. We plan to continue to expand our operations gradually through the acquisition of, or investment in, additional businesses and companies in order to seek opportunities to add or enhance our services, to enter into new markets or to strengthen our global presence. We may be unable to identify businesses that complement our strategy for growth. If we do succeed in identifying a company with such a business, we may not be able to proceed to acquire the company, its relevant business or an interest in the company for many reasons, including: • a failure to agree on the terms of the acquisition or investment; • our incompatibility with the management of the company which we wish to acquire or invest; • competition from other potential acquirers; • a lack of capital to make the acquisition or investment; and • unwillingness of the company to partner with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances and legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets, risk that businesses we acquire may lose customers, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Client satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired firm could have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquired businesses, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Our failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our short-term instruments are subject to general credit, liquidity, and interest rate risk. We maintain an investment portfolio of various short-term instruments. The investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, and interest rate risk and these risks are heightened in the current economic environment. As of December 31, 2009, our short term investments were $67 million and investment income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $3.4 million. If we do not effectively manage our anticipated expansion growth by continuing to implement systems enhancements and other improvements, our ability to deliver quality services may be adversely affected. We had experienced significant growth in our operations in the last five years, however, our revenues have dropped this year due to the economic downturn. The situation is improving now with sequential quarter on quarter revenue growth in the last three quarters of the current year. The global economy continues to be fragile and there is no guarantee that the current growth would continue. This uncertainty places significant demands on our management, and our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services may suffer thereby negatively affecting our brand and operating results. Our anticipated expansion and growth in international markets heightens these risks as a result of the particular 15 challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could impact our ability to manage our growth and our financial position. If we fail to maintain and enhance the iGATE brand, and the competitive advantages it affords us, demand for our services may be adversely affected. The brand identity that we have developed has contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the “iGATE” brand is critical to expanding our customer base and other strategic partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in the IT and IT-enabled services market. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology pioneer and continue to provide high-quality services, which we may not do successfully. If we fail to maintain and enhance the “iGATE” brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. If our infrastructure investments do not coincide with increased growth in our business, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our business model includes developing and operating global development centers in order to support our Global Delivery Model. We have global development centers located in Australia, Mexico, Canada, the U.S. and India. We are in the process of expanding our global development center in Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad, all located in India. We are developing these facilities in expectation of increased growth in our business. If our business does not grow as expected, we may not be able to benefit from our investment in this and other facilities, thereby incurring fixed cost, which will likely reduce our profitability. The market price of our shares may continue to be volatile The market price of our shares may continue to be unstable or unpredictable due to market conditions and other factors some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting the market price of our shares are: • Fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • Loss of one or more significant clients; • Loss of one or more key management personnel; • Natural disasters or any other events affecting the countries where we or our clients have operations; and • Changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts. The concentration of common stock ownership in founders may lead to conflicts of interest between us and the founders. Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, the co-founders of iGATE, own approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2010. Accordingly, Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi together currently have sufficient voting power to elect all the members of the Board of Directors and to effect transactions without the approval of our other public shareholders, except for those limited transactions that require a supermajority vote under our bylaws or articles of incorporation. On October 20, 2009, the Board of Directors approved the filing of a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 permitting the co-founders to sell up to 4,000,000 shares from time to time, in the open market or 16 otherwise, in order to diversify their holdings for estate planning purposes. No assurance as to whether or when the offering will be completed or the exact number of shares which will be sold by the co-founders can be given. iGATE will not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares. Following completion of this offering, it is expected that Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi will collectively own approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock, and will retain significant stock ownership and influence in respect of matters requiring shareholder approval, and their interests may from time to time diverge from our interests. Our Audit Committee consists of independent directors and addresses certain potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise between us and our directors, officers or our other affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. The loss of the services of key members of our Senior Leadership Team would have an adverse impact on our business. Our success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Phaneesh Murthy and senior management team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. Although each executive has entered into employment agreements containing non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants, these contracts do not guarantee that they will continue their employment with us or that such covenants will be enforceable. If we lose the service of any of the key executives, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations and meet our ongoing and future business challenges and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our engagements may result in potential liability to our clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We may also be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information of the client. We are often required to collect and store sensitive and confidential data of the client to perform the services under the contract. If any of our current or former employees misappropriates a client’s sensitive or confidential data or if we do not adapt to the latest changes in the data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liability to our clients. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 