Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could cause us to lose our market share, revenues and growth prospects. We compete with many other manufacturers and distributors, including smaller, independent specialty manufacturers and divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors control licenses for widely recognized images and have broader access to mass market retailers that could provide them with a competitive advantage. The party goods retail industry is large and highly fragmented. Our retail stores compete with a variety of smaller and larger retailers, including specialty retailers, warehouse/merchandise clubs, drug stores, supermarkets, dollar stores, mass merchants, and catalogue and online merchants. Our stores compete, among other ways, on the basis of location and store layout, product mix and availability, customer convenience and price. We may not be able to continue to compete 14 Table of Contents successfully against existing or future competitors in the retail space. Expansion into markets served by our competitors and entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. We must remain competitive in the areas of quality, price, breadth of selection, customer service and convenience. Competing effectively may require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs, which could lower our margins and adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in commodity prices. The costs of our key raw materials (paper, petroleum-based resin and cotton) fluctuate. In general, we absorb movements in raw material costs that we consider temporary or insignificant. However, cost increases that are considered other than temporary may require us to increase our prices to maintain our margins. Raw material prices may increase in the future and we may not be able to pass on these increases to our customers. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that we cannot pass on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. In addition, the interruption in supply of certain key raw materials essential to the manufacturing of our products may have an adverse impact on our and our suppliers’ abilities to manufacture the products necessary to maintain our existing customer relationships. Although not used in the actual manufacture of our products, helium gas is currently used to inflate the majority of our metallic balloons. Although adequate quantities of helium are currently available for this purpose, we will rely upon future exploration and refining of natural gas to assure continued adequate supply. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer preferences could significantly harm our customer relationships and financial performance. As a manufacturer, distributor and retailer of consumer goods, our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences are constantly changing. We also sell certain licensed products, with images such as cartoon or motion picture characters, which are in great demand for short time periods, making it difficult to project our inventory needs for these products. In addition, if consumers’ demand for single-use, disposable party goods were to diminish in favor of reusable products for environmental or other reasons, our sales could decline. The success of our business depends upon many factors, such as our ability to accurately predict the market for our products and our customers’ purchasing habits, to identify product and merchandise trends, to innovate and develop new products, to manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner and to differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. We may not be able to continue to offer assortments of products that appeal to our customers or respond appropriately to consumer demands. We could misinterpret or fail to identify trends on a timely basis. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer tastes could, among other things, lead to excess inventories and significant markdowns or a shortage of products and lost sales. Our failure to do so could harm our customer relationships and financial performance. We may not be able to successfully implement our store growth strategy. If we are unable to increase the number of retail stores we operate and increase the productivity and profitability of existing retail stores, our ability to increase sales, profitability and cash flow could be impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as we planned, our sales growth would come primarily from increases in comparable store sales. We may not be able to increase our comparable store sales, improve our margins or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to increase margins or reduce costs as a percentage of sales. Further, as we implement new initiatives to reduce the cost of operating our stores, sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our ability to successfully open and operate new stores depends on many factors including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, including temporary lease space for our Halloween City locations, the availability of which is largely outside of our control; • negotiate and secure acceptable lease terms, desired tenant allowances and assurances from operators and developers that they can complete the project, which depend in part on the financial resources of the operators and developers; • obtain or maintain adequate capital resources on acceptable terms, including the availability of cash for rent outlays under new leases; • manufacture and source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs; 15 Table of Contents • hire, train and retain an expanded workforce of store managers and other personnel; • successfully integrate new stores into our existing control structure and operations, including information system integration; • maintain adequate manufacturing and distribution facilities, information system and other operational system capabilities; • identify and satisfy the merchandise and other preferences of our customers in new geographic areas and markets; and • address competitive, merchandising, marketing, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets, including geographic restrictions on the opening of new stores based on certain agreements with our franchisees and other business partners. In addition, as the number of our stores increases along with our online sales, we may face risks associated with market saturation of our product offerings. To the extent our new store openings are in markets where we have existing stores, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. Finally, there can be no assurance that any newly opened stores will be received as well as, or achieve net sales or profitability levels comparable to those of, our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable net sales and profitability levels, our business may be materially harmed and we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Our failure to effectively address challenges such as these could adversely affect our ability to successfully open and operate new stores in a timely and cost-effective manner, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A decrease in our Halloween sales could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our retail business, including our Party City stores, online sales from our e-commerce website and our temporary Halloween City locations, realizes a significant portion of its revenues, net income and cash flow in September and October, principally due to our Halloween sales. We believe this general pattern will continue in the future. An economic downturn during this period could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if such downturn occurred at other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during the Halloween season could require us to maintain excess inventory or sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, ability to repay any indebtedness and our brand image. In addition, our sales during the Halloween season could be affected if we are not able to find sufficient and adequate lease space for our temporary Halloween City locations or if we are unable to hire temporary personnel to adequately staff these stores and our distribution facility during the Halloween season. Failure to have proper lease space and adequate personnel could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruption to the transportation system or increases in transportation costs may negatively affect our operating results. We rely upon various means of transportation, including shipments by air, sea, rail and truck, to deliver products to our distribution centers from vendors and manufacturers and from other distribution centers to our stores, as well as for direct shipments from vendors to stores. Independent third parties with whom we conduct business may employ personnel represented by labor unions. Labor stoppages, shortages or capacity constraints in the transportation industry, disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure, fuel shortages or transportation cost increases could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. Product recalls and/or product liability may adversely impact our business, merchandise offerings, reputation, results of operations, cash flow and financial performance. We may be subject to product recalls if any of the products that we manufacture or sell are believed to cause injury or illness. In addition, as a retailer of products manufactured by third parties, we may also be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. Indemnification provisions that we may enter into are typically limited by their terms and depend on the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and its insurer and the absence of significant defenses. We may be unable to obtain full recovery from the insurer or any indemnifying third party in respect of any claims against us in connection with products manufactured by such third party. In addition, if our vendors fail to manufacture or import merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards or standards established by applicable law, our reputation and brands could be damaged, potentially leading to an increase in customer litigation against us. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to replace any recalled products, we may have to reduce our merchandise offerings, resulting in a decrease in sales, especially if a recall occurs near or during a peak seasonal period. If our vendors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to recall those products at a substantial cost to us. 16 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to consumer spending and general economic conditions, and an economic slowdown could adversely affect our financial performance. In general, our retail sales, and the retail sales of our business partners to whom we sell, represent discretionary spending by our customers and our business partners’ customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, such as general business conditions, interest rates, availability of consumer credit, unemployment levels, taxation, weather and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Our customers’ and our business partners’ customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, often decline during periods when disposable income is lower or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues and profitability will decline. In addition, economic downturns may make it difficult for us to accurately forecast future demand trends, which could cause us to purchase excess inventories, resulting in increases in our inventory carrying cost, or insufficient inventories, resulting in our inability to satisfy our customer demand and potential loss of market share. Our business may be adversely affected by the loss or actions of our third-party vendors, and the loss of the right to use licensed material could harm our business and our results of operations. Our ability to find new qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner can be a significant challenge, especially for goods sourced from outside the United States. Many of our vendors currently provide us with incentives such as volume purchasing allowances and trade discounts. If our vendors were to reduce or discontinue these incentives, costs would increase. Should we be unable to pass cost increases to consumers, our profitability would be reduced. Additionally, certain of our suppliers may control various product licenses for widely recognized images, such as cartoon or motion picture characters. The loss of these suppliers, or the termination of our ability to use certain licensed material, would prevent us from manufacturing and distributing the licensed products and could cause our customers to purchase these products from our competitors. This could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial performance and cash flow. Because we rely heavily on our own manufacturing operations, disruptions at our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. In 2011, we manufactured items representing approximately 40% of our net sales at wholesale. Any significant disruption in our manufacturing facilities, in the United States or abroad, for any reason, including regulatory requirements, the loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force of nature, could disrupt our supply of products, adversely affecting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, or other disruptive geo-political events, could also result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, the temporary or permanent closure of one or more of manufacturing or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas or delays in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores or to third parties who purchase from us. If one or more of these events occurred, our revenues and profitability would be reduced. Our business and results of operations may be harmed if our suppliers or third-party manufacturers fail to follow acceptable labor practices or to comply with other applicable laws and guidelines. Many of the products sold in our stores and on our website are manufactured outside of the United States, which may increase the risk that the labor, manufacturing safety and other practices followed by the manufacturers of these products may differ from those generally accepted in the United States as well as those with which we are required to comply under many of our image or character licenses. Although we require each of our vendors to sign a purchase order and vendor agreement that requires adherence to accepted labor practices and compliance with labor, manufacturing safety and other laws and we test merchandise for product safety standards, we do not supervise, control or audit our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell to our customers. The violation of labor, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our vendors or manufacturers, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors or manufacturers from those generally accepted in the United States could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us, damage our brand image, subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups or cause some of our licensors of popular images to terminate their licenses to us. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control and could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or require us to modify our current business practices or incur increased costs. Our international operations subject us to additional risks, which risks and costs may differ in each country in which we do business and may cause our profitability to decline. 17 Table of Contents We conduct our business in a number of foreign countries, including contracting with manufacturers and suppliers located outside of the United States, many of which are located in Asia. We recently expanded our international operations through the acquisitions of the Christy’s Group in September 2010, Riethmüller in January 2011 and Party Packagers in July 2011. Our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if the markets in which we compete or source our products are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which we have no control, may include: • recessionary or expansive trends in international markets; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, principally fluctuations in the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Canadian dollar, Malaysian ringgit and Chinese renminbi; • hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which we operate; • work stoppages or other employee rights issues; • the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • transportation delays and interruptions; • increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws; • legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of laws, including trade restrictions and tariffs; and • political and economic instability. We may face risks associated with litigation and claims. From time to time, we are involved in class actions and other lawsuits, claims and other proceedings relating to the conduct of our business, including but not limited to employee-related and consumer matters. Additionally, as a retailer and manufacturer of decorated party goods, we have been and may continue to be subject to product liability claims if the use of our products, whether manufactured by us or our third party manufacturers, is alleged to have resulted in injury or if our products include inadequate instructions or warnings. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on all claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of pending lawsuits and claims, we do not believe that any such matters are material or that the disposition thereof is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, although the resolution in any reporting period of any matter could have an adverse effect on our operating results for that period. Also, we can give no assurance that any other lawsuits or claims brought in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital to fund our business, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. We currently rely on cash generated by operations and borrowings available under our credit facilities to meet our working capital needs. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or if borrowings available under our credit facilities are insufficient, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives to raise cash, such as incurring additional indebtedness, selling our assets, seeking to raise additional equity capital or restructuring. Additionally, our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility matures in 2015. If we cannot renew or refinance this facility upon its maturity or, more generally, if adequate financing is unavailable or is unavailable on acceptable terms, we may be unable to maintain, develop or enhance our operations, products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, service our current debt costs or respond to competitive pressures. Our success depends on key personnel whom we may not be able to retain or hire. The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our senior management team. Gerald C. Rittenberg, our Chief Executive Officer, and James M. Harrison, our President and Chief Operating Officer, have been with the Company for approximately 20 and 15 years, respectively. The loss of the services and leadership of either of these individuals could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find management personnel with similar experience and industry knowledge to replace either of them on a timely basis. We do not maintain key life insurance on any of our senior officers. As our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements in the past, our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as 18 Table of Contents unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future at costs that are favorable to us, or at all, could impair our ability to increase revenue, and our customers could experience lower levels of customer service. Additionally, we rely upon qualified personnel to staff our temporary Halloween City locations during the Halloween season. Our failure to attract qualified temporary personnel to adequately staff these stores could negatively impact our business. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space. We lease all of our company-owned stores, our corporate headquarters and most of our distribution facilities. Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to renew leases for successful stores and negotiate leases for new stores, including temporary leases for our Halloween City stores. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate leases at similar or favorable terms, and we may decide not to enter a market or be forced to exit a market if a favorable arrangement cannot be made. If an existing or future store is not profitable and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under the lease. Our business could be harmed if our existing franchisees do not conduct their business in accordance with the standards that we have agreed to. Our success depends, in part, upon the ability of our franchisees to operate their stores and promote and develop our store concept. Although our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, all franchisees operate independently and their employees are not our employees. We provide certain training and support to our franchisees, but the quality of franchise store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. If they do not, our image, brand and reputation could suffer. Our information systems, order fulfillment and distribution facilities may prove inadequate or may be disrupted. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business. We will be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand our systems. In particular, we believe our perpetual inventory, automated replenishment and weighted average cost stock ledger systems are necessary to properly forecast, manage and analyze our inventory levels, margins and merchandise ordering quantities. We may fail to properly optimize the effectiveness of these systems, or to adequately support and maintain the systems. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology needs and to compete with our competitors, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. In addition, we may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of our electronic order entry and information systems, e-commerce platform or manufacturing and distribution facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, systems failures or other events. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage our transition to utilizing the expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, third-party stores, and other customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. We may fail to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential information. We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes. In addition, a portion of our business operations is now conducted over the Internet. We could experience operational problems with our information systems and e-commerce platform as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed, which could — especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during a peak sales season — result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and suppliers, and we process customer payment card and check information, including via our e-commerce platform. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential Company business information. In addition, a 19 Table of Contents Company employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Any failure to maintain the security of our customers’ confidential information, or data belonging to us or our suppliers, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, result in deterioration in our customers’ confidence in us, subject us to potential litigation and liability, and fines and penalties, resulting in a possible material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business. We hold a variety of United States trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, and registrations and applications therefor, as well as a number of foreign counterparts thereto and/or independent foreign intellectual property asset registrations. In some cases, we rely solely on unregistered trademarks and copyrights under United States common law rights to distinguish and/or protect our products, services and branding from the products, services and branding of our competitors. We cannot assure you that no one will challenge our intellectual property rights in the future. In the event that our intellectual property rights are successfully challenged by a third party, we could be forced to re-brand, re-design or discontinue the sale of certain of our products or services, which could result in loss of brand recognition and/or sales and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new branding or re-designing our products. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our intellectual property rights, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce these rights. We also permit our franchisees to use a number of our trademarks and service marks, including Party City®, The Discount Party Super Store®, Halloween Costume Warehouse®, Party America®, The Paper Factory®, The Factory Card & Party Outlet® and Halloween City®. Our failure to properly control our franchisees’ use of such trademarks could adversely affect our ability to enforce them against third parties. A loss of any of our material intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We license from many third parties and do not own the intellectual property rights necessary to sell products capturing many popular images, such as cartoon or motion picture characters. While none of these licenses is individually material to our aggregate business, a large portion of our business depends on the continued ability to license the intellectual property rights to these images in the aggregate. Any injury to our reputation or our inability to comply with, in many cases, stringent licensing guidelines in these agreements may adversely affect our ability to maintain these relationships. A large loss of these licensed rights in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and time consuming to defend, cause us to cease using certain intellectual property rights or selling certain products or services, result in our being required to pay significant damages or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the rights to use third parties’ intellectual property rights, which royalty or licensing agreements may not be available at all, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. Our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had $982 million of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had $204.1 million excess availability under the New ABL Facility. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of December 31, 2011, our minimum annual rental obligations under long-term operating leases for 2012 and 2013 were $119.4 million and $88.4 million, respectively. Our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations could have other important consequences to you and significant effects on our business. For example, they could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments for our indebtedness and leases, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from exploiting business opportunities; • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including payments on our indebtedness; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and lease obligations; and 20 Table of Contents • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes. Restrictions under our existing and future indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. The agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain and the agreements governing our future indebtedness will likely contain customary restrictions on us or our subsidiaries, including covenants that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, restrict us or our subsidiaries, as the case may be, from: • incurring additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified stock; • paying dividends or distributions on, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock; • making payments on, or redeeming, repurchasing or retiring indebtedness; • making investments, loans, advances or acquisitions; • entering into sale and leaseback transactions; • engaging in transactions with affiliates; • creating liens; • transferring or selling assets; • guaranteeing indebtedness; • creating restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries; and • consolidating, merging or transferring all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are required to maintain compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio if excess availability under the New ABL Facility on any day is less than (a) 15% of the lesser of the aggregate commitments or the then borrowing base under the New ABL Facility or (b) $25 million. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the applicable agreements and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, including the New ABL Facility, the senior secured term loan facility (the “New Term Loan Credit Agreement”) and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes (the “senior subordinated notes”). If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay that indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. If we are for any reason in default under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with our covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Significant interest rate changes could affect our profitability and financial performance. Our earnings are affected by changes in interest rates as a result of our variable rate indebtedness under the New ABL Facility and New Term Loan Credit Agreement. The interest rate swap agreements that we use to manage the risk associated with fluctuations in interest rates may not be able to fully eliminate our exposure to these changes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents 