ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have a history of losses, we expect more losses in the future and we have substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent auditor contains a qualification that points out factors "raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern." Since our inception, we have never been profitable before extraordinary items. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss from operations of $(443,803) compared to net income from operations of $101,163 for the year ended December 31, 2006, and stockholders? deficit of $(2,789,740) as of December 31, 2007. We presently have limited credit facilities and we are in default on several loan instruments. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, though we may report positive net income in 2008. We believe we do not currently have available funds sufficient to sustain our operations through the second quarter of 2009. Our available funds generally consist of cash and the funding derived from our revenue sources: income related to environmental testing. As of December 31, 2007, we had $8,657 in available cash. Reducing operating expenses and capital expenditures alone will not be sufficient to solve our liquidity problems. Unless we are able to obtain sufficient funding through equity or debt offerings we will not be able to expand our business. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing it may not be sufficient to expand our current operations. The Company's strategy is to maximize the opportunity for growing the Company into a profitable operating company. That strategy is to acquire companies that are, or can be, operated profitability in environmental services. The Company?s management has operated service companies in a variety of fields for over 35 years. While there has been some progress made on the implementation of this relatively new strategy, the strategy is still in its infancy. The Company presently has limited credit facilities and is in default on several loan instruments. All of the above factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The Company's status as a going concern is dependent on its ability to successfully implement a marketing plan and generate sufficient revenues to operate on a profitable basis, continued financial support by officers and major shareholders and raising of additional funds for working capital. The financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the possible inability of the Company to continue as a going concern. The Company?s Directors and officers make all decisions regarding selection of management, budgeting, marketing, salaries and other matters affecting the Company. Shareholders have little, if any, ability to influence the management or the direction of the Company. Agreements and arrangements between the Company and the Directors are not the result of arm?s length negotiations and may result in conflicts of interest. See ?MANAGEMENT- Compensation.? The Company will initiate additional acquisitions in the future and has only limited prior acquisition history. A shareholder in the Company must rely upon the ability of Management in identifying, structuring, and implementing acquisitions consistent with the Company's objectives and policies. There can be no assurance that there will be any additional acquisitions. The Company may involve high degrees of leverage. Accordingly, recessions, operating problems and other general business and economic risks may have a more pronounced effect on the profitability or survival of the company. Also, increased interest rates increase the company?s interest expenses. In the event the company cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet debt service, the Company may suffer a partial or total loss of capital invested in the company. Decisions with respect to the management of the Company will be made by management of the Company or its parent. The loss of the services of one or more of the principal members of Management could have an adverse impact on the Company's ability to realize its business objectives. The principals of the Company anticipate devoting sufficient time as may be necessary to conduct the business affairs of the Company in an appropriate manner. However, the principals of the Company and its parent are not full time employees and may participate in activities of other companies. There can be no assurance that the participation in such additional Companies will not give rise to conflicts of interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 