Item 1A. Risk Factors We are affected by a wide range of risk factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could therefore cause operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us elsewhere in this report. In addition, investors in our common stock and other securities also bear certain risks relating to those securities and the trading market for our common stock. Below are some of the material factors and risks that could affect our results of operations or the value of our securities: No Assurance of Future Profitability; Losses from Operations; Need for Capital. We incurred net losses in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007. In order to generate profits in the future, we need to reduce interest expense, increase the volume of products and services sold at profitable margins, control costs and generate sufficient cash flow to support our working capital and debt service requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to avoid net losses in the future or that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms if our capital needs cannot be satisfied by cash flow from operations. During fiscal 2008, we faced a number of challenges that required us to raise additional capital, including increased need for supplier credit in the face of historic increases in fuel prices, a general tightening of the credit markets and the need to meet Nasdaq requirements. In the future, we may need to raise additional capital to fund new acquisitions, the expansion or diversification of existing operations or additional debt repayment. While we believe that we will be able to obtain needed capital, there can be no assurance that we will do so or that it can be obtained on terms acceptable to us. 7 Growth Dependent Upon Future Expansion; Risks Associated With Expansion into New Markets. While we intend to continue to expand through acquisitions, our growth will also depend upon the ability to achieve greater penetration in existing markets and to successfully enter new markets in both additional major and secondary metropolitan areas. Such organic expansion will largely be dependent on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our services and products to potential new customers, successfully establish and operate new locations, hire, train and retain qualified management, operating, marketing and sales personnel, finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital requirements, secure reliable sources of product supply on a timely basis and on commercially acceptable credit terms, and successfully manage growth by effectively supervising operations, controlling costs and maintaining appropriate quality controls. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our operations into new markets. Interest Expense. A substantial portion of our net losses for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 are attributable to the substantial interest burden borne by the Company, including $3.06 million of interest in fiscal 2008 and $3.73 million in 2007, compared to net losses of $6.77 million and $6.59 million, respectively, for those years. The majority of this interest is attributable to interest on our revolving bank debt and our August 2007 senior subordinated secured debt. If and to the extent that interest rates generally increase or we are otherwise required to bear higher interest rates for our future borrowings, our interest expense could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, if we make one or more acquisitions or if we incur additional net losses in the future and are required to borrow funds to fund those acquisitions or offset those losses, the interest on the higher level of debt could have a detrimental effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we are exposed to fluctuating interest rates associated with our line of credit. Effect of Preferred Stock Issuance. On February 29, 2008, we issued 4,587 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for approximately $2.5 million in cash and debt and on March 12, 2008, we issued 1,985 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for approximately $1.8 million in debt. On August 15, 2008, we issued, 229 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock for $149,000. Each share of Preferred Stock is convertible into 1,000 shares of our common stock. Because the quarterly dividends on the Preferred Stock were originally payable at eighteen percent (18%) per annum of the aggregate issue price of $4.4 million, initially dividends at 18% per annum would be $795,000 per year in dividends on the Preferred Stock, some of which would be reduced interest obligations on outstanding debt securities that were converted to Preferred Stock. While the dividend rate will be reduced to 12% per annum two weeks after notification to the Series A and Series B Preferred stockholders, and the aggregate annual dividend obligation to $530,000, because of our achievement of positive Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for the past two consecutive fiscal quarters, the burden of paying even these lower dividends may, together with the interest and other debt service expenses on our revolving bank debt and our August 2007 senior subordinated secured debt, limit the amount of capital available to the Company and our ability to finance acquisitions and otherwise expand our operations. While we can require conversion of the preferred stock into common stock under certain limited circumstances, we can not predict when those circumstances will arise. Acquisition Availability; Integrating Acquisitions. Our future growth strategy involves the acquisition of complementary businesses, such as wholesale fuel or petroleum lubricants marketers and distributors, wholesale fuel and other commercial mobile fueling companies, and transportation logistics services businesses. It is not certain that we will be able to identify or make suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms or that any future acquisitions will be effectively and profitably integrated into our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including timely and cost effective integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, potential write downs of acquired assets, retention of key personnel of the acquired business, potential disruption of existing business, maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, additional capital needs, the effect of changes in management on existing business relationships, and profitability and cash flows generally. 8 Nasdaq Listing of Our Common Stock. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol FUEL. While we consider the listing on Nasdaq to be a valuable attribute of our common stock and other securities, there can be no assurance that such listing will continue. During Fiscal 2008, our listing on Nasdaq came into question on two different grounds. On February 19, 2008, we received a letter from Nasdaq stating that we did not comply with the requirement of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3) requiring listed companies to have $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity. In response, on February 29, 2008, we issued 4,587 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for approximately $2.52 million in cash and debt and on March 12, 2008, we issued 1,985 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for approximately $1.8 million in debt. These transactions increased our stockholders’ equity by approximately $4.2 million, permitting us to regain compliance with Rule 4310(c)(3). There is no assurance, however, that such compliance will continue indefinitely since any future net operating losses will reduce our stockholders’ equity and could cause us to again be in violation of Rule 4310(c)(3). In addition, on December 28, 2007, we received notice from Nasdaq that, because the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement of Marketplace Rule 4310(c) for 30 consecutive business days, compliance with the $1.00 bid price requirement was required by June 25, 2008. When the bid price stayed below the minimum after that date, we filed an appeal to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to prevent a delisting of our common stock. The hearing on the Company’s appeal was held on August 14, 2008. At the hearing, we asked the Panel for a temporary exception to the minimum bid price requirement to us time to complete a reverse stock split that would reduce the number of shares outstanding and, correspondingly, increase the stock price. On September 11, 2008, the Panel granted the extension of time until December 23, 2008. Under the terms of the extension, the Company must have a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for a minimum of ten prior consecutive trading days on or before December 23, 2008, and must otherwise maintain compliance with all other applicable Nasdaq listing standards. Moreover, while we expect that the reverse stock split, once in effect, would increase the trading price of the common stock above the $1.00 minimum bid price, there can be no assurance that the market price per post-split share will either exceed or remain in excess of the minimum for the sustained period of time necessary to ensure long term compliance with Nasdaq rules. Effects of Nasdaq Delisting. If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, we believe that it would trade in the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), which was established for trading the securities of reporting companies that do not meet the Nasdaq listing requirements. Because the OTCBB is generally considered less efficient than Nasdaq, it could be more difficult for an existing shareholder to sell shares of our common stock after a delisting from Nasdaq. On the OTCBB, trading volumes are typically lower, reporting of transactions can be delayed, and coverage of the Company by securities analysts and news media, which is already limited, may be reduced. In turn, these factors could result in lower prices for our common stock or larger “spreads” between the “bid” and “ask” prices quoted by market makers for shares of the Common Stock, either of which could reduce the prices available for sales of our common stock by existing shareholders. Delisting from Nasdaq could also impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing since Nasdaq listed securities are typically viewed as more liquid than securities that are not traded on a national securities exchange. In addition, if delisting does cause lower prices for our common stock, it could then cause an increase in the ownership dilution to shareholders when the Company issues equity securities in financing or other transactions. The price at which we issue shares in such transactions is generally based on or related to the market price of our common stock, so a decline in the market price could result in the need for us to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding or to acquire a given dollar value of goods or services. In addition, if our common stock is not listed on Nasdaq, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) because our common stock may be classified as a “penny stock” under Exchange Act Rule 3a51-1. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may impair the ability of our shareholders to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities. Also, institutional investors will usually not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). For these reasons, a classification of our common stock as a “penny stock” under Rule 3a51-1 would probably adversely affect the liquidity and the value of that stock. 9 Finally, if our common stock was no longer listed on Nasdaq or any other national securities exchange, we could no longer use the SEC’s short form registration forms, such as Form S-3, to register shares of our common stock under the Securities Act of 1933 but would have to instead use the longer registration forms, such as Form S-1. While the negative impact of long form registration has been reduced by recent SEC rule changes permitting most purchasers of stock in unregistered offering to freely resell their securities six months after the purchase under Rule 144, long form registration would probably require more time, effort and expense, and may in turn limit the value of our common stock Price Depreciation After Reverse Stock Split. The long term efficacy of a reverse stock split in maintaining compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement is uncertain. While the short-term result of a reverse stock split can be reasonably predicted, the long-term consequences are more difficult to confirm. The price of our common stock is likely to be affected by our performance and by general market and economic conditions that cannot be predicted or evaluated by the Board of Directors at this time. Accordingly, even if the reverse stock split is successful in reestablishing compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement and we meet the stockholders’ equity and other requirements needed to maintain our Nasdaq listing, there is no assurance that the aggregate market value of our common stock will be greater after a reverse stock split than it would have been without ever effecting a reverse stock split. Volatility of Trading Market for Our Stock. During the past few years, our stock has sometimes traded in large daily volumes and other times at much lower volumes, in many cases at wide price variances. This volatility, which could make it difficult for shareholders to sell shares at a predictable price or at specific times, is generally due to factors beyond our control. Quarterly and annual operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or other developments affecting us could also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may be affected by various other factors unrelated to the number of shares outstanding after the reverse stock split, including our future performance and general market conditions. Need to Maintain Effective Internal Controls. In fiscal 2006, our management identified significant deficiencies related to policies and procedures to ensure accurate and reliable interim and annual consolidated financial statements that, considered together, constituted a material weakness in our internal controls. Even though we have taken the necessary steps to correct the identified material weakness and have not identified any material weakness for fiscal 2008, it is possible that, considering our size, our limited capital resources and our need to continue to expand our business by acquisitions and diversification, we may identify another material weakness in our internal controls in the future. Moreover, even if we do not identify any material weakness or significant deficiencies, our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors or fraud because any control system, no matter how well designed, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the continued services and efforts of Richard E. Gathright, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and on those of other key executive personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Gathright or other executive personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, operating, marketing, sales and financial personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel on terms satisfactory to us. We have entered into written employment agreements with Mr. Gathright and certain other key executive personnel. While Mr. Gathright’s employment agreement provides for automatic one-year extensions unless either party gives notice of intent not to renew prior to such extension, there is no assurance that Mr. Gathright’s services or those of our other executive personnel will continue to be available to us. Fuel Pricing and Supply Availability; Effect on Profitability. Diesel fuel and gasoline are commodities that are refined and distributed by numerous sources. We purchase the fuel delivered to our customers from multiple suppliers at daily market prices and in some cases qualify for certain discounts. We monitor fuel prices and trends in each of our service markets on a daily basis and seek to purchase our supply at the lowest prices and under the most favorable terms. Commodity price risk is generally mitigated since we purchase and deliver our fuel supply daily and generally utilize cost-plus pricing when billing our customers. If we cannot continue to utilize cost-plus pricing when billing our customers, margins would likely decrease and losses could increase. We have not engaged in derivatives or futures trading to hedge fuel price movements. In addition, diesel fuel and gasoline may be subject to supply interruption due to a number of factors, including natural disasters, refinery and/or pipeline outages and labor disruptions. Limitations on the amount of credit available from suppliers has become a more significant issue for us in light of the dramatic increases in the price of fuel and other petroleum products over the past year. As a result, increasing the availability of short term credit for fuel purchases has been one of the principal motivations for raising new capital since the historic price escalation began in late 2007. Irrespective of the reason, any reduction of the availability of fuel supplies could impact our ability to provide mobile fueling, commercial bulk fueling, and emergency response services and impact profitability. 10 Risks Associated with Customer Concentration; Absence of Written Agreements. Although we provide services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few of our larger customers. Sales to our largest customer, the United States Postal Service, represents 8.1% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008. While we have formal, length of service written contracts with some of these larger customers, such agreements are not customary and we do not have them with the majority of our customers. As a result, most of our customers can terminate our services at any time and for any reason, and we can similarly discontinue service to those customers. We may also discontinue service to a customer if changes in the service conditions or other factors cause us not to meet our minimum level of margins and rates, and the pricing or delivery arrangements cannot be re-negotiated. As a result of this customer concentration and the absence of written agreements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our larger customers were lost or if we were to experience a high rate of service terminations of our other customers. Effect of Reduced Fuel Usage. The dramatic increases in fuel prices over the past year have caused businesses, including many of our customers, to take steps to reduce the amount of fuel that they consume in their operations by driving fewer miles or, in some case, using higher mileage or alternative fuel vehicles. In turn, these reductions have reduced the volumes delivered by us to those customers. If higher prices persist, it is likely that these and other customers’ fuel usage will continue to decline, requiring us to obtain additional customers to replace the lost volume. If we cannot replace the lost volume with new customers, our revenues and results of operation will be negatively affected. Management of Growth; Accounting and Information Technology Systems Implementation. Our future growth strategy requires effective operational, financial and other internal systems, and the ability to attract, train, motivate, manage and retain our employees. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, results of operations will be adversely affected. In particular, our results of operations will be influenced by the redesign and implementation of our accounting and information technology systems. While in the short run, the costs of that redesign and implementation have increased our expenses and adversely affected our results of operations, we expect that, with the implementation completed, it will help reduce operating costs and improve our ability to effectively manage our business and integrate acquisitions. There can be no assurance, however, that such redesign and implementation will be completed as planned, or that it will have the intended results. Competition. We compete with other service providers, including several large regional providers and numerous small, local independent operators, who provide some or all of the same services that we offer to our customers. In the mobile fueling area, we also compete with retail fuel marketing, since fleet operators have the option of fueling their own equipment at retail stations and at other third-party service locations such as card lock facilities. Our ability to compete is affected by numerous factors, including price, the complexity and technical nature of the services required, delivery dependability, credit terms, the costs incurred for non-mobile fueling alternatives, service locations as well as the type of reporting and invoicing services provided. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully as a result of these or other factors. 11 Operating Risks May Not Be Covered by Insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing and transporting diesel fuel and gasoline, which are classified as hazardous materials. We maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverages and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal and property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, including business interruption; that we will be able to maintain acceptable levels of insurance; or that insurance will be available at economical prices. Governmental Regulation. Numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including those relating to protection of the environment and worker safety, affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements without incurring substantial costs or otherwise adversely affecting our operations. Changes in Environmental Requirements. We expect to generate future business by converting certain fleet operators, currently utilizing underground fuel storage tanks for their fueling needs, to commercial mobile fueling. The owners of underground storage tanks have been required to remove or retrofit those tanks to comply with technical regulatory requirements pertaining to their construction and operation. If other more economical means of compliance are developed or adopted by owners of underground storage tanks, the opportunity to market our services to these owners may be adversely affected. Terrorism and Warfare in the Middle East May Adversely Affect the Economy and the Price and Availability of Petroleum Products. Terrorist attacks, as well as the continuing political unrest and warfare in the Middle East, may adversely impact the price and availability of fuel, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact of terrorism on the oil industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets, the sources of our products, and our infrastructure facilities or our suppliers could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport fuel if the means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipelines, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity following a terrorist attack could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also impair our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity or further instability in the Middle East could also lead to increased volatility in fuel prices, which could adversely affect our business generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 12 Item 