Risk Factors BASF’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer adverse material effects due to any of the following risks. While all the risks considered material are described below, these are not the only risks BASF faces. Additional risks not known by BASF or not presently considered material might also impair BASF’s business operations. Certain developments in the global economy generally may adversely affect BASF’s sales and earnings. Four major economic factors may pose risks affecting BASF’s sales and earnings: 1. The oil price development could differ from the expected levels, 2. The U.S. dollar may further devaluate against the euro and Asian currencies, 3. China’s economy might experience a significantly reduced growth rate compared with expectations; and 4. The U.S. economy might experience a greater or longer slowdown in growth than economic forecasters currently anticipate. While currently not expected, a possible risk is a hard landing of the U.S. economy. 11 Decreasing demand for chemical products in Europe, the United States and Asia could consequently have an adverse effect on both sales and earnings. Those areas that are subject to commoditization, such as BASF’s basic inorganic chemicals, petrochemicals, intermediates and plastic operations are particularly vulnerable, whereas BASF’s agricultural, nutrition, cosmetics and natural gas operations as well as the recently acquired businesses catalysts and construction chemicals are less likely to be impacted. BASF is also regionally diversified and therefore less likely to be impacted from weakness in a specific region. Changes in regulation could impact BASF’s business and operating results. BASF must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on the testing, manufacturing and marketing of many of its products. BASF expects that regulatory controls worldwide, and especially in the European Union (E.U.), will become increasingly more demanding. The European Union has passed new legislation on chemicals (REACH) to govern the registration, evaluation and authorization of chemicals. The new legislation will come into force in the relevant E.U. member states on June 1, 2007. We have been actively involved in numerous E.U. projects to support the efficient and economically practicable implementation of REACH and are now making detailed preparations for its introduction. We expect implementation to be associated with expenses of approximately €50 million per year in the period up to 2018. Within the framework of E.U. emissions trading, the BASF Group was allocated allowances (EUA) for approximately 7 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) per year for the affected plants at our European sites for 2006. For the second trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of chemical plants will also be included in the Europe-wide trading system. As a globally operating organization, we also conduct business with customers in Iran. A range of our products, particularly Plastics and Performance Products, is delivered mostly to private companies. These sales are insignificant in comparison to the consolidated sales of BASF (less than 0.2% in 2004, 2005 and 2006) and in our opinion are not otherwise significant to BASF’s consolidated operations. Sales to customers in Iran of dual-use products, which are products that can be used for both civil and military purposes and could be used as precursors for agents in chemical weapons, represented less than 0.01% of BASF’s consolidated sales in each of 2004, 2005 and 2006. The customers of these dual-use products are state-owned companies. BASF employs procedures for compliance with applicable export control legislation, including those of the European Union and Germany, which incorporate international export control arrangements also agreed to by the United States and incorporated to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) of the U.S. Department of Commerce. These transactions may lead some potential customers and investors to avoid doing business with us or investing in our shares. BASF is exposed to foreign currency and interest rate risks. BASF conducts a significant portion of its operations outside of Europe and is therefore exposed to risks associated with the fluctuations of foreign currencies. BASF is subject to interest rate risks in the ordinary course of its business. Risk management is centralized at BASF Aktiengesellschaft and BASF Group companies designated for that purpose. BASF hedges against financial risks through derivative instruments such as forward exchange contracts, currency options, interest rate and currency swaps, and combined instruments. There can be no assurance, however, that BASF’s hedging strategy will be effective and that foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations will not adversely affect BASF’s results of operations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional information about the nominal value and market value of BASF’s financial instruments. BASF is also subject to credit risks to the extent that counterparties to transactions may not be able to perform their contractual obligations. Although BASF aims to limit the risk of default by entering into transactions only with top-rated financial institutions and by adhering to fixed limits, defaults with respect to significant contracts may adversely affect BASF’s operating results. 12 Significant variations in the cost and availability of raw materials, energy, precursors and intermediates may adversely affect BASF’s operating results. BASF uses significant amounts of raw materials and energy in manufacturing a wide variety of products. Significant variations in the cost and availability of raw materials, energy, precursors and intermediates may adversely affect BASF’s operating results. To control these costs and supply risks, BASF purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts with prices that periodically float. Additionally required purchases on spot markets are made using optimized procedures. Supply contracts for the most strategically important raw materials are negotiated and concluded centrally for the BASF Group. For more information, see “