ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the value of our shares could be negatively impacted. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known that may materially adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Commercialization The commercial success of our currently marketed products and any additional products that we successfully commercialize will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not be profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our products depends on a number of factors, including: 23 ● the prevalence and severity of any side effect; ● the efficacy and potential advantages over the alternative treatments; ● the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices, including in relation to any generic products; ● relative convenience and ease of administration; ● the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; ● the strength of marketing and distribution support; and ● sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. We face competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than us. The development and commercialization of drugs is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our currently marketed products and any products that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research organizations that seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for development, manufacturing and commercialization. We face significant competition for our currently marketed products. Some of our currently marketed products do not have patent protection and in most cases face generic competition. All of our products face significant price competition from a range of branded and generic products for the same therapeutic indications. Some or all of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from other branded and generic drugs approved for the same therapeutic indications, approved drugs used off label for such indications and novel drugs in clinical development. For example, our product candidates may not demonstrate sufficient additional clinical benefits to physicians to justify a higher price compared to other lower cost products within the same therapeutic class. Notwithstanding the fact that we may devote substantial amounts of our resources to bringing product candidates to market, our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, safer, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop and/or commercialize. Our patent rights will not protect our products and product candidates if competitors devise ways of making products that compete with us without legally infringing our patent rights. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and FDA regulations and policies provide certain exclusivity incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications (“ANDAs”) for generic substitutes. These same types of exclusivity incentives encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications (“NDAs”) that rely, in part, on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by such manufacturers. Manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same API, dosage form, strength, route of administration and conditions of use or labeling as our product and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product, a comparison known as bioequivalence. Such products would be significantly less costly than certain of our products to bring to market and could lead to the existence of multiple lower-priced competitive products, which would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their product candidates more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our product candidates. Products in our portfolio that do not have patent protection are potentially at risk for generic competition. We utilize our generic subsidiary, Macoven, to attempt to retain market share from other generic competitors for these products. Additionally, products we sell through our collaborative or co-promotion arrangements may also face competition in the marketplace. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and superior expertise in marketing and sales, research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products and thus may be better equipped than us to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified management personnel, and acquiring technologies. Many of our competitors have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. In many cases, products that compete with our products have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development, have well known brand names, are distributed by large pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources and have achieved widespread acceptance among physicians and patients. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 24 We will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or products with more effective patent protection, than our products. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, our revenue and profit from existing products and anticipated revenue and profit from product candidates. If our products or product candidates are rendered noncompetitive, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those products or product candidates. As our competitors introduce their own generic equivalents of our products, our net revenues from such products are expected to decline. Product sales of generic pharmaceutical products often follow a particular pattern over time based on regulatory and competitive factors. The first company to introduce a generic equivalent of a branded product is often able to capture a substantial share of the market. However, as other companies introduce competing generic products, the first entrant’s market share, and the price of its generic product, will typically decline. The extent of the decline generally depends on several factors, including the number of competitors, the price of the branded product and the pricing strategy of the new competitors. For example, in the generic drug industry, when a company is the first to introduce a generic drug, the pricing of the generic drug is typically set based on a discount from the published price of the equivalent branded product. Other generic manufacturers may enter the market and, as a result, the price of the drug may decline significantly. In such event, we may in our discretion provide our customers a credit with respect to the customers’ remaining inventory for the difference between our new price and the price at which we originally sold the product to our customers. There are circumstances under which we may, as a matter of business strategy, not provide price adjustments to certain customers and, consequently, we may lose future sales to competitors. To combat the adverse impact of the introduction of generic equivalents of our products, we develop and commercialize generic versions of many of our own branded products through our wholly-owned subsidiary Macoven. Negative publicity regarding any of our products or product candidates could delay or impair our ability to market any such product, delay or prevent approval of any such product candidate and may require us to spend time and money to address these issues. If any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to consumers, our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be impaired. Because of our dependence on patient and physician perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could limit the commercial potential of our products and expose us to potential liabilities. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain qualified sales and management personnel, the commercial opportunity for our products may be diminished. As of March 25, 2011, our sales force consists of approximately 55 full-time sales representatives. We may not be able to attract, hire, train and retain qualified sales and sales management personnel. If we are not successful in our efforts to maintain a qualified sales force, our ability to independently market and promote our products may be impaired. In such an event, we would likely need to establish a collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangement to market and sell such products. However, we might not be able to enter into such an arrangement on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to effectively maintain a qualified sales force, our sales force may not be successful in commercializing our products. A failure to maintain optimal inventory levels to meet commercial demand for our products could harm our reputation and subject us to financial losses. Our ability to maintain optimal inventory levels to meet commercial demand depends on the performance of third-party contract manufacturers. Certain of our products, including PEDIATEX TD, BROVEX PSE, BROVEX PSE DM, BROVEX PSB, and BROVEX PSB DM and their generic equivalents contain controlled substances, which are regulated by the DEA under the Controlled Substances Act. DEA quota requirements limit the amount of controlled substance drug products a manufacturer can manufacture and the amount of API it can use to manufacture those products. In some instances, third-party manufacturers have encountered difficulties obtaining raw materials needed to manufacture our products as a result of DEA regulations and because of the limited number of suppliers of pseudoephedrine, an active ingredient in several of our products. If our manufacturers are unsuccessful in obtaining quotas, if we are unable to manufacture and release inventory on a timely and consistent basis, if we fail to maintain an adequate level of product inventory, if inventory is destroyed or damaged or if our inventory reaches its expiration date, patients might not have access to our products, our reputation and our brands could be harmed and physicians may be less likely to prescribe our products in the future, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with regulatory requirements for our controlled substance products the DEA may take regulatory actions detrimental to our business, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. We, our manufacturers and certain of our products including PEDIATEX TD, BROVEX PSE, BROVEX PSE DM, BROVEX PSB and BROVEX PSB-DM, are subject to the Controlled Substances Act and DEA regulations thereunder. Accordingly, we and our contract manufacturers must adhere to a number of requirements with respect to our controlled substance products including registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; labeling and packaging requirements; security controls, procurement and manufacturing quotas; and certain restrictions on refills. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our currently marketed products and any other products that we successfully develop or commercialize. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our products or product candidates caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: ● decreased demand for our products or any products that we may develop; ● injury to reputation; ● withdrawal of client trial participants; ● withdrawal of a product from the market; ● costs to defend the related litigation; ● substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; ● diversion of management time and attention; ● loss of revenue; and ● the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. We generally experience some effects of seasonality due to increases in demand for cough and cold products during the winter season. Accordingly, sales of cough and cold products and associated revenue have generally increased at a higher rate during the winter season. In the future this seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality that we experience may change. 26 Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We use third parties to manufacture all of our products and product candidates. This may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our products or product candidates or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could result in development and commercialization of our product candidates being delayed, prevented or impaired. We do not own or operate, and do not currently have plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities for our products or product candidates. We have limited personnel with experience in drug manufacturing and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our products or product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our products and product candidates, and the manufacture of the finished forms of these drugs and packaging. The current manufacturers of our products and product candidates are, and any future third party manufacturers that we enter into arrangements with will likely be, our sole suppliers of our products and product candidates for a significant period of time. These manufacturers are commonly referred to as single source suppliers. Some of our manufacturing arrangements may be terminated at-will by either party without penalty. If any of these manufacturers should become unavailable to us for any reason, we may be unable to conclude arrangements with replacements on favorable terms, if at all, and may be delayed in identifying and qualifying such replacements. In any event, identifying and qualifying a new third party manufacturer could involve significant costs associated with the transfer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or finished product manufacturing process. A change in manufacturer generally requires formal approval by the FDA before the new manufacturer may produce commercial supplies of our FDA approved products. This approval process can take a lengthy period of time and, during that time, we may face a shortage of supply of our products. Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products or product candidates ourselves, including: ● reliance on third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; ● the possible breach of the manufacturing arrangement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and ● the possible termination or nonrenewal of the manufacturing relationship by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Our products and product candidates may compete with other products and product candidates for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture a product for commercial sale or for clinical trials should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in obtaining sufficient quantities of our products for us to meet commercial demand or in advancing clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers. If for any reason we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. We also import the API for substantially all of our products from third parties that manufacture such items outside the United States, and we expect to do so from outside the United States in the future. This may give rise to difficulties in obtaining API in a timely manner as a result of, among other things, regulatory agency import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. For example, in January 2009, the FDA released draft guidance on Good Importer Practices, which, if adopted, will impose additional requirements on us with respect to oversight of our third-party manufacturers outside the United States. The FDA has stated that it will inspect 100% of API that is imported into the United States. If the FDA requires additional documentation from third-party manufacturers relating to the safety or intended use of the API, the importation of the API could be delayed. While in transit from outside the United States or while stored with our third-party logistics provider, DDN, our API could be lost or suffer damage, which would render such items unusable. We have attempted to take appropriate risk mitigation steps and to obtain transit or casualty insurance. However, depending upon when the loss or damage occurs, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and commercialize products and product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. 27 We rely on our third party manufacturers for compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. This may increase the risk of sanctions being imposed on us or on a manufacturer of our products or product candidates, which could result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these products or product candidates. Our manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or other regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. DEA regulations also govern facilities where controlled substances are manufactured. Our manufacturers are subject to DEA registration requirements and unannounced inspections by the FDA, the DEA, state regulators and similar regulators outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third party manufacturers, to comply with applicable requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including: ● fines; ● injunctions; ● civil penalties; ● failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates; ● FDA regulatory action against any currently marketed products or products in development; ● delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals; ● suspension of manufacturing operations; ● DEA registration revocation; ● seizures or recalls of products or product candidates; ● operating restrictions; and ● criminal prosecutions. Any of these sanctions could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products and product candidates, our business and our financial condition. If the safety of any of our product candidates is compromised due to failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidate or successfully commercialize such product candidate, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay in clinical developments, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our product candidates. Furthermore, if we fail to obtain the required commercial quantities on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and product candidates, if approved, and would lose potential revenues. We intend to rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We do not intend to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We will rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. We do not have experience conducting clinical trials or complying with these requirements. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. 28 The concentration of our product sales to only a few wholesale distributors increases the risk that we will not be able to effectively distribute our products if we need to replace any of these customers, which would cause our sales to decline. The majority of our sales are to a small number of pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which in turn sell our products primarily to retail pharmacies, which ultimately dispense our products to the end consumers. In 2010, Cardinal Health accounted for 43% of our total gross sales, McKesson Corporation accounted for 29% of our total gross sales and Morris & Dickson accounted for 13% of our total gross sales. If any of these customers cease doing business with us or materially reduce the amount of product they purchase from us and we cannot conclude agreements with replacement wholesale distributors on commercially reasonable terms, we might not be able to effectively distribute our products through retail pharmacies. The possibility of this occurring is exacerbated by the recent significant consolidation in the wholesale drug distribution industry, including through mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Any collaboration arrangements that we enter into may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We enter into collaboration arrangements from time to time on a selective basis. Our collaborations may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. Disagreements between parties to a collaboration arrangement regarding clinical development and commercialization matters can lead to delays in the development process or commercializing the applicable product candidate and, in some cases, termination of the collaboration arrangement. These disagreements can be difficult to resolve if neither of the parties has final decision making authority. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Any such termination or expiration could adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. Our business could suffer as a result of a failure to manage and maintain our distribution network. We rely on third parties to distribute our products. We have contracted with DDN/Obergfel, LLC, or DDN, for the distribution of our products to wholesalers, retail drug stores, mass merchandisers and grocery stores in the United States. This distribution network requires significant coordination with our supply chain, sales and marketing and finance organizations. Failure to maintain our contract with DDN, or the inability or failure of DDN to adequately perform as agreed under its contract with us, could negatively impact us. If we were unable to replace DDN or bring our warehouse functions in-house in a timely manner in the event of a natural disaster, failure to meet FDA and other regulatory requirements, business failure, strike or any other difficulty affecting DDN, the distribution of our products could be delayed or interrupted, which would damage our results of operations and market position. Failure to coordinate financial systems could also negatively impact our ability to accurately report and forecast product sales and fulfill our regulatory obligations. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network, sales of our products could be severely compromised and our business could be harmed. We depend on the distribution abilities of our wholesale customers to ensure that our products are effectively distributed through the supply chain. If there are any interruptions in our customers’ ability to distribute products through their distribution centers, our products may not be effectively distributed, which could cause confusion and frustration among pharmacists and lead to product substitution. For example, in the first quarter of 2008, several Cardinal Health distribution centers were placed on probation by the DEA and were prohibited from distributing controlled substances. Although Cardinal Health had a plan in place to re-route all orders to the next closest distribution center for fulfillment, system inefficiency resulted in a failure to effectively distribute our products to all areas. 29 Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products. The patent situation in the field of pharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We rely upon patents, trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. We may not be able to obtain additional patent rights relating to our technology or products and pending patent applications to which we have rights may not issue as patents or if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if issued, any patents issued to us or licensed to us may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. In addition, patents generally expire, regardless of the date of issue, 20 years from the earliest non-provisional effective U.S. filing date. Some of our products do not have patent protection and in some cases face generic competition. For a description of our patent protection, see the “Intellectual Property ” section of Part I, Item 1. - "Description of Business" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our collaborators and licensors may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. These third parties may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if these third parties do not, our ability to maintain and defend our intellectual property rights may be comprised by the acts or omissions of these third parties. Trademark protection of our products may not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. We use trademarks on most of our currently marketed products and believe that having distinctive marks is an important factor in marketing those products, particularly ALDEX, BROVEX, CEDAX and PEDIATEX. Distinctive marks may also be important for any additional products that we successfully develop and commercially market. However, we generally do not expect our marks to provide a meaningful competitive advantage over other branded or generic products. We believe that efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third party payors are and are likely to continue to be more important factors in the commercial success of our products. For example, physicians and patients may not readily associate our trademark with the applicable product or active pharmaceutical ingredient. In addition, prescriptions written for a branded product are typically filled with the generic version at the pharmacy, resulting in a significant loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Competitors also may use marks or names that are similar to our trademarks. If we initiate legal proceedings to seek to protect our trademarks, the costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We have acquired rights to products and product candidates under license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various development and commercialization, purchase commitment, royalty, sublicensing, patent protection and maintenance, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations or otherwise breach the license agreement, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim could prevent or impede our ability to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, our results of operations and stock price could suffer. In addition, upon any termination of a license agreement, we may be required to license to the licensor any related intellectual property that we developed. 30 If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect our unpatented proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, third parties, vendors or former or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that our intellectual property protection is inadequate, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants and third parties to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it may adversely affect our business. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may be subsequently issued and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. If any relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable in any litigation or administrative proceeding, we or our potential future collaborators could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in such patents, or would be required to obtain licenses from the patent owners of each such patent, or to redesign our products. There can be no assurance that such licenses would be available or, if available, would be available on acceptable terms or that we would be successful in any attempt to redesign our products. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us or our future collaborators from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at other pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. However, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Risks Related to Our Financial Position We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs, commercialization efforts or acquisition strategy. We make significant investments in our currently-marketed products for sales, marketing, securing commercial quantities of product from our manufacturers, and distribution. In addition, we expect to make significant investments with respect to development, particularly to the extent we conduct clinical trials and seek FDA approval for product candidates. For example, in December 2010, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SEEK, a United Kingdom drug discovery group, to form a joint venture to develop and obtain regulatory approval in Europe and the United States for BC 1036, an antitussive cough suppressant pharmaceutical product utilizing Theobromine as an active ingredient. In connection with our entry into the joint venture, we made an initial capital contribution of approximately $1.5 million, and may contribute additional capital from time to time, to fund development and commercialization efforts. These amounts may be substantial to the extent clinical trials are commenced in the United States. 31 We have used, and expect to continue to use, revenue from sales of our marketed products to fund a significant portion of our development costs and establishing and expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure. However, we may need substantial additional funding for these purposes and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts. As of March 25, 2011, we had approximately $12.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and revenue from product sales will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: ● the level of product sales from our currently marketed products and any additional products that we may market in the future; ● the scope, progress, results and costs of clinical development activities for our product candidates, particularly BC 1036; ● the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates, particularly BC 1036; ● the number of, and development requirements for, additional product candidates that we pursue; ● the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; ● the costs and timing of establishing manufacturing and supply arrangements for clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates; ● the extent to which we acquire or invest in products, businesses and technologies; ● the extent to which we choose to establish collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangements for our products and product candidates; and ● the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, we will need to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements or other financing alternatives. Additional equity or debt financing, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, which are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If the estimates that we make, or the assumptions upon which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our future financial results may vary from expectations. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. For example, at the same time we recognize revenues for product sales, we also record an adjustment, or decrease, to revenue for estimated charge backs, rebates, discounts, vouchers and returns, which management determines on a product-by-product basis as its best estimate at the time of sale based on each product’s historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves. Actual sales allowances may exceed our estimates for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated competition, regulatory actions or changes in one or more of our contractual relationships. We cannot assure you, therefore, that there may not be material fluctuations between our estimates and the actual results. 32 ● the costs and timing of establishing manufacturing and supply arrangements for clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates; ● the extent to which we acquire or invest in products, businesses and technologies; ● the extent to which we choose to establish collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangements for our products and product candidates; and ● the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, we will need to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements or other financing alternatives. Additional equity or debt financing, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, which are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If the estimates that we make, or the assumptions upon which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our future financial results may vary from expectations. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. For example, at the same time we recognize revenues for product sales, we also record an adjustment, or decrease, to revenue for estimated charge backs, rebates, discounts, vouchers and returns, which management determines on a product-by-product basis as its best estimate at the time of sale based on each product’s historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves. Actual sales allowances may exceed our estimates for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated competition, regulatory actions or changes in one or more of our contractual relationships. We cannot assure you, therefore, that there may not be material fluctuations between our estimates and the actual results. 33 If we fail to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the NYSE Amex and it determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. If we fail to meet all applicable listing requirements of NYSE Amex and it determines to delist our common stock, a trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the market price of our common stock could decline. If a trading market for our common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell shares of our common stock without further depressing the market price of our common stock or at all. A delisting of our common stock also could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. If significant business or product announcements by us or our competitors cause fluctuations in our stock price, an investment in our stock may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility as a result of announcements by us or other companies in our industry, including our collaborators. Announcements that may subject the price of our common stock to substantial volatility include announcements regarding: ● our operating results, including the amount and timing of sales of our products; ● the availability and timely delivery of a sufficient supply of our products; ● our licensing and collaboration agreements and the products or product candidates that are the subject of those agreements; ● the results of discoveries, preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; ● the acquisition of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; ● the development of new technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; ● regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates or products or those of our competitors; and ● significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. Because we acquired Pernix Therapeutics, Inc. by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. On March 9, 2010, Pernix Therapeutics, Inc., or PTI, merged with and into a transitory subsidiary of GTA, with the transitory subsidiary surviving the merger, and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pernix. Additional risks to our investors may exist because we acquired PTI through a “reverse merger.” Prior to the merger, security analysts of major brokerage firms did not provide coverage for us. In addition, because of past abuses and fraud concerns stemming primarily from a lack of public information about new public businesses, there are many people in the securities industry and business in general who view reverse merger transactions with suspicion. Without brokerage firm and analyst coverage, there may be fewer people aware of the combined company and its business, resulting in fewer potential buyers of our securities, less liquidity, and depressed stock prices for our investors. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain. We made distributions of approximately $121,000 in 2010 to cover certain 2009 state tax obligations of the shareholders when we were an S-corporation. We did not make any other distributions for the year ended December 31, 2010. While Pernix has the ability to pay dividends from an earnings standpoint, we are currently investing in our promoted product lines and product candidates and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 34 Insiders have substantial control over the combined company and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, including a transaction in which the combined company’s stockholders could sell or exchange their shares for a premium. Our directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 67% of our common stock. As a result, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, if acting together, have the ability to affect the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, will have the ability to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the value of our common stock by: ● delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; ● impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination; or ● discouraging a potential acquirer from making an acquisition proposal or otherwise attempting to obtain control. Resales of shares of common stock could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We issued shares of common stock in the merger to the former stockholders of PTI, representing approximately 84% of the aggregate common stock then outstanding, on a fully diluted basis. These shares were issued in the merger pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act and are therefore “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act. In addition to being subject to restrictions on transfer imposed under the securities laws, each former stockholder of PTI entered into a stockholder agreement (which together cover approximately 18.8 million shares), which among other things, restricts the sale or transfer of these shares for specified periods. We may waive the restrictions on transfer under the stockholder agreements described above, although we currently have no intention to do so. When the restrictions in the stockholder agreements described above lapse and the shares become available for resale, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We anticipate that there may be fluctuations in our future operating results. Potential causes of future fluctuations in our operating results may include: ● period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; ● issues in manufacturing products; ● unanticipated potential product liability claims; ● new or increased competition from generics; ● the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by competitors; ● changes in the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payers for our products; ● the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key strategic alliance agreements; ● the initiation of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; ● the loss of key employees; ● the results of pre-clinical testing, IND application, and potential clinical trials of some product candidates; 35 ● regulatory changes; ● the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of product candidates; ● the results of clinical trials conducted by others on products that would compete with our products and product candidates; ● failure of any of our products or product candidates to achieve commercial success; ● general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect research and development expenditures; ● future sales of our common stock; and ● changes in the structure of health care payment systems resulting from proposed healthcare legislation or otherwise. Moreover, stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Risks Related to Product Development We may invest a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our product candidates and there is no guarantee we will obtain requisite regulatory approvals or otherwise timely bring these product candidates to market. In December 2010, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SEEK, a United Kingdom drug discovery group, to form a joint venture to develop and obtain regulatory approval in both Europe and the United States for BC 1036, an antitussive cough suppressant pharmaceutical product utilizing Theobromine as an active ingredient. Upon execution of the joint venture agreement, we contributed approximately $1.5 million to the joint venture, representing approximately 50% of the aggregate capital initially contributed by all of the joint venture’s shareholders, in consideration for an equity interest representing 50% of the total voting power and approximately 46% of the total economic power in the entity. We expect to contribute additional capital to the extent the entity proceeds with its attempts to obtain regulatory approval in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we granted an exclusive license to all of our Theobromine intellectual property to a subsidiary of the joint venture, including United States Patent No. 6,348,470. On March 24, 2011, we announced the appointment of JP Morgan Cassenove as financial advisor in connection with an auction of the Theobromine assets of the joint venture. The auction will be for the global commercialization rights (excluding Korea) of Theobromine. Pivotal phase III trials for Theobromine (BC1036) are scheduled to begin in the European market in the second half of 2011, and a regulatory filing is expected in 2012. We are in ongoing discussions with FDA to determine the clinical trial program and regulatory requirements in the U.S. In addition, Pernix has the exclusive pediatric promotion rights in the U.S. to the extent we fund the development and clinical trial program for such Theobromine products. We continue to explore all strategic alternatives available with respect to the Theobromine assets, and continue to fund the development of these product candidates through our joint venture with SEEK. Our decision to sell or otherwise transfer the Theobromine assets in an auction will depend on the terms of any offers we may receive. We make no guarantee that we will receive any offers in an auction of these assets, or that such offers will be made on terms acceptable to us. While some of our partners in the joint venture have experience in obtaining European regulatory approval, we do not have experience with that process, nor do we or our joint venture partners have any experience in obtaining regulatory approval in the United States. Our ability to bring BC 1036 to market in the United States depends on a number of factors including: ● successful completion of pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing; ● an investigational new drug application or IND application, becoming effective, which must occur before human clinical trials may commence; ● successful completion of clinical trials; ● receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA; ● establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers; 36 ● launching commercial sales of the product; ● acceptance of the product by patients, the medical community and third party payors; ● competition from other therapies; ● achieving and maintaining compliance with all regulatory requirements applicable to the product; and ● a continued acceptable safety profile of the product following approval. There are no guarantees that we will be successful in completing these tasks. If we are not successful in commercializing BC 1036 (or any other product candidate we may seek to develop), or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be harmed, possibly materially. If our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we may experience delays, incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of some of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. In the United States, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in well-controlled studies, and to the satisfaction of the FDA, that each product candidate is safe and effective for use in the target indication. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. The outcome of early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Even if early phase clinical trials are successful, it is necessary to conduct additional clinical trials in larger numbers of patients taking the drug for longer periods before seeking approval from the FDA to market and sell a drug in the United States. Clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and companies that have believed their products performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. Similarly, even if clinical trials of a product candidate are successful in one indication, clinical trials of that product candidate for other indications may be unsuccessful. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Failures or delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates. Commencement or completion of clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including: ● FDA or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ● difficulty complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial; ● delays in reaching or failure to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; ● our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or FDA or analogous foreign governmental entities may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; ● the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; ● our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; ● we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; 37 ● regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ● the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; ● the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and ● the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates in addition to those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: ● be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates; ● not be able to obtain marketing approval; or ● obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; Our product development costs also will increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Significant clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. In addition, failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial protocols may also result in the ineligibility to use the data to support market approval. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Some of our specialty pharmaceutical products are now being marketed without FDA approvals. Even though the FDCA requires pre-marketing approval of all new drugs, as a matter of history and regulatory policy, the FDA has historically refrained from taking enforcement action against some marketed, unapproved new drugs. Specifically, some marketed prescription and nonprescription drugs are not the subject of an approved marketing application because they are thought to be identical, related, or similar to historically-marketed products, which were thought not to require pre-market review and approval, or which were approved only on the basis of safety, at the time they entered the marketplace. When enacted in 1938, the FDCA required proof of safety but not efficacy for new drugs. Between 1938 and 1962, if a drug obtained approval, FDA considered drugs that were identical, related, or similar to the approved drug to be covered by that approval, and allowed those drugs to be marketed without independent approval, In 1962, Congress amended the FDCA to require that a new drug be proven effective, as well as safe, to obtain FDA approval. FDA established the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation, or DESI, program, which was established to determine the effectiveness of drug products approved before 1962. Drugs that were not subject to applications approved between 1938 and 1962 were not subject to DESI review. For a period of time, the FDA permitted these drugs to remain on the market without approval. In 1984, the FDA created a program, known as the Prescription Drug Wrap-Up, also known as DESI II, to address the remaining unapproved drugs. Most of these drugs contain active pharmaceutical ingredients that were first marketed prior to 1938. The FDA asserts that all drugs subject to the Prescription Drug Wrap-Up are on the market illegally and are subject to FDA enforcement discretion because all prescription drugs must be the subject of an approved drug application. There are a few narrow exceptions. Under the 1938 grandfather clause, a drug product that was on the market prior to the passage of the FDCA in 1938 and which contains in its labeling the same representations concerning the conditions of use as it did prior to passage of the FDCA was not considered a “new drug” and therefore was exempt from the requirement of having an approved NDA. The 1962 grandfather clause exempts a drug from the effectiveness requirements if its composition and labeling has not changed since 1962 and if, on the day before the 1962 Amendments became effective, it was (a) used or sold commercially in the United States, (b) not a new drug as defined by the FDCA at that time, and (c) not covered by an effective application. The FDA and the courts have interpreted these two grandfather clauses very narrowly. FDA believes that there are very few drugs on the market that are actually entitled to grandfather status because the drugs currently on the market likely differ from the previous versions in some respect, such as formulation, dosage or strength, dosage form, route of administration, indications, or intended patient population. It is a company’s burden to prove that its product is grandfathered. 38 The FDA has adopted a risk-based enforcement policy concerning these unapproved drugs. While all such drugs are considered to require FDA approval, FDA enforcement against such products as unapproved new drugs prioritizes products that pose potential safety risks, lack evidence of effectiveness, prevent patients from seeking effective therapies or are marketed fraudulently. In addition, the FDA has indicated that approval of an NDA for one drug within a class of drugs marketed without FDA approval may also trigger agency enforcement of the new drug requirements against all other drugs within that class that have not been so approved. Some of our specialty pharmaceutical products are marketed in the United States without an FDA-approved marketing application because they have been considered by us to be identical, related or similar to products that have existed in the market without an NDA or ANDA. These products are marketed subject to the FDA’s regulatory discretion and enforcement policies, and it is possible that the FDA could disagree with our determination that one or more of these products is identical, related or similar to products that have existed in the marketplace without an NDA or ANDA. On March 3, 2011, the FDA announced its intent to remove certain unapproved prescription cough, cold, and allergy products from the U.S. market and named products from both the Aldex and Brovex product families. FDA provided three dates for the cessation of manufacturing, shipping or other introduction or delivery into commerce – March 3, 2011 for drugs not listed with FDA under Section 510 of the FDCA, June 1, 2011 for cessation of manufacturing of listed drugs and August 31, 2011 for cessation of shipping of listed drugs covered by the notice. Manufacturing or shipping of the drug products covered by the notice can result in enforcement action, including seizure, injunction, or other judicial or administrative proceedings. The time periods will not be extended for those who have submitted but not yet received approval of an NDA or ANDA application for a drug product covered by the notice. The Company has converted the ALDEX and BROVEX product families to OTC monograph from Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) drugs over the past two cold seasons. The Company believes it has and can continue to appropriately market these lines as OTC monograph products. If the FDA were to disagree with our determination, it could require the removal of our unapproved products from the market, which would significantly reduce our gross sales. The Company’s authorized generic products added through the acquisition of Macoven that are OTC monograph products are not expected to be affected by the FDA announcement. Certain Macoven generic products that are not currently marketed as OTC monograph are in the process of being converted, and we do not expect any suspension, delay or interruption in our sales of these products. Our remaining generic DESI cough and cold products that are not being converted to OTC monograph were already planned to be phased out and are not expected to have a material impact on the results of operations or financial condition of the Company. If the FDA were to disagree with our determination, it could ask or require the removal of our unapproved products from the market, which would significantly reduce our gross sales. In addition, if the FDA issues an approved NDA for one of the drug products within the class of drugs that includes one or more of our unapproved products or completes the efficacy review for that drug product, it may require us to also file an NDA or ANDA application for its unapproved products in that class of drugs in order to continue marketing them in the United States. While the FDA generally provides sponsors with a one-year grace period during which time they are permitted to continue selling the unapproved drug, it is not statutorily required to do so and could ask or require that the unapproved products be removed from the market immediately. In addition, the time it takes us to complete the necessary clinical trials and submit an NDA or ANDA to the FDA may exceed any applicable grace period, which would result in an interruption of sales of such unapproved products. If the FDA asks or requires that the unapproved products be removed from the market, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The inclusion of our ALDEX and BROVEX lines in the FDA’s announcement on March 3, 2011 regarding the removal of certain products from market may damage the reputation of these brands. Additionally, our conversion of these and other products to OTC monograph standards may adversely affect the sales and/or marketability of these products. As previously stated, on March 3, 2011, the FDA announced its intention to remove certain unapproved prescription cough, cold, and allergy products from the U.S. market and named products from both the ALDEX and BROVEX product families. The Company has discontinued certain of and converted the remainder of the named ALDEX and BROVEX products to OTC monograph from Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) drugs over the past two cold seasons, and believes it has and can continue to appropriately market these lines as OTC monograph products. However, the inclusion of these products in the FDA’s March 3, 2011 announcement may cause harm to the reputation of these products. Additionally, the conversion to OTC monograph standards often requires changes to labeling and dosage requirements, among other things. Any such changes may adversely affect the sales and/or marketability of our converted products. If the FDA disagrees with our determination that several of our products meet the over-the-counter requirements, those products may be removed from the market. Drugs must meet all of the general conditions for OTC drugs and all of the conditions contained in an applicable final monograph to be considered generally recognized as safe and effective (GRAS/GRAE) and to be marketed without FDA approval of a marketing application. The general conditions include, among other things, compliance with cGMP, establishment registration and labeling requirements. Any product which fails to conform to each of the general conditions and a monograph is liable to regulatory action We believe our promoted branded cough and cold products conform to an FDA OTC monograph. However, if the FDA determines that our products do not conform to the monograph or if we fail to meet the general conditions, the products may be removed from the market and we may face actions including, but not limited to, restrictions on the marketing or distribution of such products, warning letters, fines, product seizure, or injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Any of these actions may materially and adversely effect our financial condition and operations. 39 If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate increased revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA, the DEA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable European authorities. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received approval from the FDA or demonstrated our ability to obtain regulatory approval for BC 1036 or any other drugs that we have developed or are developing. We have no significant experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals and expect to rely on third party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Securing FDA approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the FDA. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved and the nature of the disease or condition to be treated. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Our lack of experience in obtaining FDA approvals could delay, limit or prevent such approvals for its product candidates. In December 2010, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SEEK, a United Kingdom drug discovery group, to form a joint venture to develop and obtain regulatory approval in both Europe and the United States for BC 1036, an antitussive cough suppressant pharmaceutical product utilizing theobromine as an active ingredient. The joint venture intends to commence a single phase III trial of BC 1036 in the first half of 2011 in order to obtain regulatory approval in Europe. With respect to United States regulatory approval, the joint venture has initiated preliminary discussions with the FDA and anticipates meeting with the FDA sometime in the first quarter of 2011 to discuss a regulatory approval program in the United States. While some of our partners in the joint venture have experience in obtaining European regulatory approval, we do not have experience with that process, nor do we or our joint venture partners have any experience in obtaining regulatory approval in the United States. Our limited experience in this regard could delay or limit approval of our product candidates if we are unable to effectively manage the applicable regulatory process with either the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, significant errors or ineffective management of the regulatory process could prevent approval of a product candidate, especially given the substantial discretion that the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have in this process. Further, even if we obtain regulatory approval in one jurisdiction, that does not ensure regulatory approval in another jurisdiction. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. 40 Any product for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: ● withdrawal of the products from the market; ● restrictions on the marketing or distribution of such products; ● restrictions on the manufacturers or manufacturing processes; ● warning letters; ● refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; ● recalls; ● fines; ● suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; ● refusal to permit the import or export of our products; ● product seizure; or ● injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. In addition, the FDA strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label, or for the indications specified in an applicable OTC monograph and in accordance with the monograph’s labeling requirements. An organization that is found to have improperly promoted off label uses may be subject to significant liability by the FDA and other agencies that actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off label uses. The Federal Trade Commission regulates advertising for OTC drug products and advertising for these products must be truthful, not misleading and adequately substantiated. If we are found to have promoted off-label uses, our OTC products may be deemed out of compliance with the applicable OTC monograph, we may be enjoined from such off-label promotion and become subject to significant liability, which would have an adverse effect on our reputation, business and revenues, if any. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Our sales of currently marketed products are, and any future sales of our product candidates will be, dependent, in part, on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including government health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. All of our products are generally covered by managed care and private insurance plans. Generally, the status or tier within managed care formularies, which are lists of approved products developed by MCOs varies but coverage is similar to other products within the same class of drugs. For example, CEDAX is covered by private insurance plans similar to other marketed, branded cephalosporins. However, the position of CEDAX as a branded product often requiring a higher patient copayment may make it more difficult to expand the current market share for this product. In some cases, MCOs may require additional evidence that a patient had previously failed another therapy, additional paperwork or prior authorization from the MCO before approving reimbursement for CEDAX. Some Medicare Part D plans also cover some or all of our products, but the amount and level of coverage varies from plan to plan. We also participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and submit all of our products for inclusion in this program. Coverage of our products under individual state Medicaid plans varies from state to state. Additionally, some of our products are purchased under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, which is codified as Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act. Section 340B limits the cost of covered outpatient drugs to certain federal grantees, federally qualified health center look-alikes and qualified disproportionate share hospitals. 41 There have been, there are and we expect there will continue to be federal and state legislative and administrative proposals that could limit the amount that government health care programs will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical and biologic products. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, created a new Medicare benefit for prescription drugs. More recently, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 significantly reduced reimbursement for drugs under the Medicaid program. Legislative or administrative acts that reduce reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our business. In addition, private insurers, such as MCOs, may adopt their own reimbursement reductions in response to federal or state legislation. Any reduction in reimbursement for our products could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, we believe that the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact our product sales. Furthermore, when a new product is approved, governmental and private coverage for that product, and the amount for which that product will be reimbursed, are uncertain. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. The MMA established a voluntary prescription drug benefit, called Part D, which became effective in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot be certain that our currently marketed products will continue to be, or any of our product candidates still in development will be, included in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, the private health plans that administer the Medicare drug benefit can limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered on their formularies in each therapeutic category and class. In addition, private managed care plans and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Because many of these same private health plans administer the Medicare drug benefit, they have the ability to influence prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed or adopted various programs under their Medicaid programs to control drug prices, including price constraints, restrictions on access to certain products and bulk purchasing of drugs. If we succeed in bringing additional products to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis to a sufficient patient population. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products and product candidates. Our relationships with customers and payors are subject to applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputation harm, and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and others play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of our products. Our arrangements with third party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products. Applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include, but are not limited to, the following: ● The federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. ● The Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, and its corresponding regulations, prohibit physicians from referring patients for designated health services reimbursed under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to entities with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a financial relationship or an ownership interest, subject to narrow regulatory exceptions. ● The federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease, or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. ● The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. ● The federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. ● Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government. 42 Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our past or present operations, including activities conducted by our sales team or agents, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from third party payor programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Many aspects of these laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of subjective interpretations, which increases the risk of potential violations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to produce, market and distribute our existing products. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the FDAAA, grants a variety of new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at improving drug safety and assuring the safety of drug products after approval. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. The new requirements and other changes that the FDAAA imposes may make it more difficult, and likely more costly, to obtain approval of new pharmaceutical products and to produce, market and distribute existing products. We may be subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with reporting obligations under federal healthcare program pharmaceutical pricing requirements. Under federal healthcare programs, some state governments and private payors investigate and have filed civil actions against numerous pharmaceutical companies alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in false and overstated average wholesale price, which in turn may be alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursements paid by Medicare, private insurers, state Medicaid programs, medical plans and others to healthcare providers who prescribed and administered those products or pharmacies that dispensed those products. These same payors may allege that companies do not properly report their “best prices” to the state under the Medicaid program. Suppliers of outpatient pharmaceuticals to the Medicaid program are also subject to price rebate agreements. Failure to comply with these price rebate agreements may lead to federal or state investigations, criminal or civil liability, exclusion from federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, and otherwise harm our reputation, business and prospects. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial personnel. We are highly dependent upon our executive management team. The loss of the services of any one or more of the members of our executive management team or other key personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of some of our development and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified sales and marketing personnel is critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. 43 We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the inexperience of our management team in managing a company during a period of such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Our management devotes substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE Amex, imposes various requirements on public companies, including with respect to corporate governance practices. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that our management maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and, as applicable, our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require us to incur substantial accounting and related expenses and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, our financial reporting could be unreliable and misinformation could be disseminated to the public. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal control over financial reporting could harm our operating results and prevent us from meeting our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause our stockholders and potential investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, investors relying upon this misinformation could make an uninformed investment decision, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, NYSE Amex or other regulatory authorities, or to stockholder class action securities litigation. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy Our strategy of obtaining, through product acquisitions and in-licenses, rights to products and product candidates for our development pipeline and to proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies for our life cycle management of current products may not be successful. Part of our business strategy is to acquire rights to pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical product candidates in the late stages of development and proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies. Because we do not have discovery and research capabilities, the growth of our business will depend in significant part on our ability to acquire or in-license additional products, product candidates or proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies that we believe have significant commercial potential and are consistent with our commercial objectives. However, we may be unable to license or acquire suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties for a number of reasons. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products, product candidates and related technologies is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products, product candidates and drug delivery and formulation technologies, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. Many of our competitors have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. 44 Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable products, product candidates or technologies include: ● We may be unable to license or acquire the relevant products, product candidates or technologies on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on investment; ● Companies that perceive us as a competitor may be unwilling to license or sell their product rights or technologies to us; ● We may be unable to identify suitable products, product candidates or technologies within our areas of expertise; and ● We may have inadequate cash resources or may be unable to obtain financing to acquire rights to suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties. If we are unable to successfully identify and acquire rights to products, product candidates and proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies and successfully integrate them into our operations, we may not be able to increase our revenues in future periods, which could result in significant harm to our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we fail to successfully manage any acquisitions, our ability to develop our product candidates and expand our product pipeline may be harmed. Our failure to adequately address the financial, operational or legal risks of any acquisitions or in-license arrangements could harm our business. Financial aspects of these transactions that could alter our financial position, reported operating results or stock price include: ● use of cash resources; ● higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; ● potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; ● the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, impairment losses or restructuring charges; ● large write-offs and difficulties in assessing the relative percentages of in-process research and development expense that can be immediately written off as compared to the amount that must be amortized over the appropriate life of the asset; and ● amortization expenses related to other intangible assets. 45 Operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from these transactions include: ● challenges associated with managing an increasingly diversified business; ● disruption of our ongoing business; ● difficulty and expense in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems or personnel of the acquired company; ● diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; ● inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; ● the assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims; and ● subsequent loss of key personnel. If we are unable to successfully manage our acquisitions, our ability to develop and commercialize new products and continue to expand our product pipeline may be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 