Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be susceptible to significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — announcements by governmental or regulatory authorities of significant investigations or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; — changes in our cost structure due to factors beyond our control, such as new laws or regulations relating to environmental matters and employment; — future sales of our ordinary shares; - 10 - — general stock market price and volume fluctuations; and — devaluation of the dollar against the NIS. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If we fail to maintain NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement of a minimum bid price of at least $1.0 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, our shares may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ELTK.” To continue to be listed on NASDAQ, we need to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price for our ordinary shares of $1.0 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days. If we fail to comply with such requirement, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance by meeting the applicable standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days (and in some cases, NASDAQ may require a company to maintain a bid price of at least $1.0 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days). If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, NASDAQ may afford us an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period we have demonstrated that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. The NASDAQ Stock Market has temporarily suspended the rule requiring a minimum $1.0 bid price until July 19, 2009. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and for certain periods have traded below the $1.0 threshold requirement for continued trading. In 2008, the price of our ordinary shares ranged from $0.50 (low) to $3.10 (high). The closing price of our ordinary shares on April 29, 2009, was $1.09 per share. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement, our share may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares would be conducted on a market where an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of, our ordinary shares. We do not expect to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain our current and any future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (as defined by the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due, or otherwise upon the permission of the court. In the event cash dividends are declared, such dividends will be paid in NIS. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices, principal production facilities and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 11 - Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. Since September 2000, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel of varying levels of severity. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. There were extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. Since June 2007, when Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip. Hamas has launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, which led to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. The recent violence has generally taken a toll on Israeli business overseas. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and neighboring Syria and Lebanon or Iran may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military reserve service. Many of our employees and some of our directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore impact the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. - 12 - The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law currently does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is relatively little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules regarding the composition of the board of directors, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, compensation of officers and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 