Risk Factors -- We are subject to risks related to our international operations" and "-- Exchange rate fluctuations could cause a decline in our financial conditions and results of operations" for information about the risks associated with foreign operations. SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION We have separate and distinct sales and marketing efforts for our OE and aftermarket businesses. For OE sales, our sales and marketing team is an integrated group of professionals, including skilled engineers and program managers that are organized by customer and product type (e.g., ride control and emission control). Our sales and marketing team provides the appropriate mix of operational and technical expertise needed to interface successfully with the OEMs. Our new business "capture process" involves working closely with the OEM platform engineering and purchasing team. Bidding on OE automotive platforms typically encompasses many months of engineering and business development activity. Throughout the process, our sales team, program managers and product engineers assist the OE customer in defining the project's technical and business requirements. A normal part of the process includes our engineering and sales personnel working on customers' integrated product teams, and assisting with the development of component/system specifications and test procedures. Given that the OE business involves long-term production contracts awarded on a platform-by-platform basis, our strategy is to leverage our engineering expertise and strong customer relationships to obtain platform awards and increase operating margins. For aftermarket sales and marketing, our sales force is generally organized by customer and region and covers multiple product lines. We sell aftermarket products through five primary channels of distribution: (1) the traditional three-step distribution system: full line warehouse distributors, jobbers and installers; (2) the specialty two-step distribution system: specialty warehouse distributors that carry only specified automotive product groups and installers; (3) direct sales to retailers; (4) direct sales to installer chains; and (5) direct sales to car dealers. Our aftermarket sales and marketing representatives cover all levels of the distribution channel, stimulating interest in our products and helping our products move 14 through the distribution system. Also, to generate demand for our products from end-users, we run print and television advertisements and offer pricing promotions. We were one of the first parts manufacturers to offer business-to-business services to customers with TA-Direct, an on-line order entry and customer service tool. In addition, we maintain detailed web sites for each of the Walker(R), Monroe(R), Rancho(R) and DynoMax(R) brands and our heavy duty products. MANUFACTURING AND ENGINEERING We focus on achieving superior product quality at the lowest operating costs possible and generally use state-of-the-art manufacturing processes to achieve that goal. Our manufacturing strategy centers on a lean production system designed to reduce overall costs -- especially indirect costs -- while maintaining quality standards and reducing manufacturing cycle time. In addition, we have implemented Six Sigma in our processes to minimize product defects and improve operational efficiencies. We deploy new technology where it makes sense to differentiate our processes from our competitors' or to achieve balance in one-piece flow through production lines. EMISSION CONTROL Our consolidated businesses operate 13 emission control manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and 35 emission control manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. We operate six of these international facilities through joint ventures in which we own a controlling interest. We also operate four additional manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. through four joint ventures in which we hold a noncontrolling interest. We operate four emission control engineering and technical facilities worldwide and share two other such facilities with our ride control operations. Within each of our emission control manufacturing facilities, operations are organized by component (muffler, catalytic converter, pipe, resonator and manifold). Our manufacturing systems incorporate cell-based designs, allowing work-in-process to move through the operation with greater speed and flexibility. We continue to invest in plant and equipment to stay on top of the industry. For instance, in our Harrisonburg, Virginia, aftermarket manufacturing facility, we have developed a completely automated production process that handles all facets of pipe production from tube milling to pipe bending. In an effort to further improve our OE customer service and position ourselves as a Tier-1 OE systems supplier, we have been developing some of our emission control manufacturing operations into "just-in-time" or "JIT" systems. In this system, a JIT facility located close to our OE customer's manufacturing plant receives product components from both our manufacturing operations and independent suppliers, assembles and then ships products to the OEMs on an as-needed basis. To manage the JIT functions and material flow, we have advanced computerized material requirements planning systems linked with our customers' and supplier partners' resource management systems. We have three emission control JIT assembly facilities in the United States and 16 in the rest of the world, including three that are operated through non-controlled joint ventures. During the 1990's, we expanded our converter and emission system design, development, test and manufacturing capabilities. Our engineering capabilities now include advanced predictive design tools, advanced prototyping processes and state-of-the-art testing equipment. This expanded technological capability makes us a "full system" integrator, supplying complete emission control systems from the manifold to the tailpipe, to provide full emission and noise control. It also allows us to provide JIT delivery and, when feasible, sequence delivery of emission control systems to meet customer production requirements. For 2003, we introduced our new Tubular Integrated (catalytic) Converter ("TIC") to major vehicle manufacturers in North America. The TIC shortens production time, reduces manufacturing cost by up to 25 percent and reduces weight by up to 20 percent using a new cold-formed, weld-free production process. 15 RIDE CONTROL Our consolidated businesses operate nine ride control manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and 22 ride control manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. We operate three of these international facilities through joint ventures in which we own a controlling interest. We operate seven engineering and technical facilities worldwide and share two other such facilities with our emission control operations. Within each of our ride control manufacturing facilities, operations are organized by product (shocks, struts and vibration control products) and include computer numerically controlled and conventional machine centers; tube milling and drawn-over-mandrel manufacturing equipment; metal inert gas and resistance welding; powdered metal pressing and sintering; chrome plating; stamping; and assembly/test capabilities. Our manufacturing systems incorporate cell-based designs, allowing work-in-process to move through the operation with greater speed and flexibility. As in the emission control business, in an effort to further improve our OE customer service and position us as a Tier 1 OE module supplier, we have been developing some of our manufacturing operations into JIT systems. We have two JIT ride control assembly facilities in the United States and five additional JIT ride control facilities in the rest of the world. In designing our shock absorbers and struts, we use advanced engineering and test capabilities to provide product reliability, endurance and performance. Our engineering capabilities feature advanced computer aided design equipment and testing facilities. Our dedication to innovative solutions has led to such technological advances as: - Adaptive damping systems -- adapts to the vehicle's motion to better control undesirable vehicle motions; - Electronically adjustable suspensions -- changes suspension performance based on a variety of inputs such as steering, braking, vehicle height, and velocity; and - Air leveling systems -- manually or automatically adjust the height of the vehicle. Conventional shock absorbers and struts generally compromise either ride comfort or vehicle control. Our innovative grooved-tube, gas-charged shock absorbers and struts provide both ride comfort and vehicle control, resulting in improved handling, reduced vibration and a wider range of vehicle control. This technology can be found in our premium quality Sensa-Trac(R)shock absorbers. In late 1997, we further enhanced this technology by adding the SafeTech(TM) fluon banded piston, which improves shock absorber performance and durability. In 1999, we introduced the Monroe Reflex(R) shock absorber, which incorporates our Impact Sensor(TM) device. This technology permits the shock absorber to automatically switch in milliseconds between firm and soft compression damping when the vehicle encounters rough road conditions, thus maintaining better tire-to-road contact and improving handling and safety. We supply Volvo with an innovative computerized electronic suspension system, which features dampers developed by Tenneco and electronic valves designed by Ohlins Racing AB. The continuously controlled electronic suspension ("CES") ride control system is featured on Volvo's new S60R, V70R, and S80R (4C-2WD) passenger cars. CES is also available as an option on the Volvo S60, V70, S80 and XC70. In 2005, Audi began offering CES as an option on the Audi A6 and the A6 Avant. QUALITY CONTROL Quality control is an important part of our production process. Our quality engineers establish performance and reliability standards in the product's design stage, and use prototypes to confirm the component/system can be manufactured to specifications. Quality control is also integrated into the manufacturing process, with shop operators being responsible for quality control of their specific work product. In addition, our inspectors test work-in-progress at various stages to ensure components are being fabricated to meet customers' requirements. We believe our commitment to quality control and sound management practices and policies is demonstrated by our successful participation in the International Standards Organization/Quality 16 Management Systems certification process ("ISO/TS"). ISO/TS certifications are semi-annual or annual audits that certify that a company's facilities meet stringent quality and business systems requirements. Without TS or ISO certification, we would not be able to supply our products for the aftermarket or the OE market, respectively, either locally or globally. Of those manufacturing facilities where we have determined that TS certification is required to service our customers or would provide us with an advantage in securing additional business, 89 percent have achieved TS 16949:2002 certification. We plan to complete the certification of the remaining 11 percent of these plants by year end 2006. Of those manufacturing facilities where we have determined that ISO 9000 certification is required or would provide us with an advantage in securing additional business, 100 percent have achieved ISO 9000 certification. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our objective is to enhance profitability by leveraging our global position in the manufacture of emission control and ride control products and systems. We intend to apply our competitive strengths and balanced mix of products, markets, customers and distribution channels to capitalize on many of the significant existing and emerging trends in the automotive and specialty industries. The key components of our business strategy are described below. LEVERAGE GLOBAL ENGINEERING AND ADVANCED SYSTEM CAPABILITIES We continue to focus on the development of highly engineered systems and complex assemblies and modules, which are designed to provide value-added solutions to customers and generally increase vehicle content and carry higher profit margins than individualized components. We have developed integrated, electronically linked global engineering and manufacturing facilities, which we believe help us to maintain our presence on top-selling vehicles. We have more than 10 years of experience in integrating systems and modules. In addition, our JIT and in-line sequencing manufacturing and distribution capabilities have enabled us to better respond to our customers needs. We operate 26 JIT facilities worldwide. "OWN" THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE We seek to leverage our aftermarket expertise, which provides us with valuable consumer demand information, to strengthen our competitive position with OEMs. Our market knowledge, coupled with our leading aftermarket presence, strengthens our ties with our OE customer base and drives OE acceptance of our aftermarket products and technologies for use in original equipment vehicle manufacturing. COMMERCIALIZE INNOVATIVE, VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS To differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors, we focus on commercializing innovative, value-added products, both on our own and through strategic alliances, with emphasis on highly engineered systems and complex assemblies and modules. We seek to continually identify and target new, fast-growing niche markets and commercialize our new technologies for these markets, as well as our existing markets. For example, our exclusive Kinetic(R) Dynamic Suspension System, a version of the Kinetic(R) Reversible Function Stabilizer Technology, is featured as an option on the Lexus GX470 sports utility vehicle through a licensing arrangement between us and Lexus. EXPAND OUR AFTERMARKET BUSINESS We manufacture and market leading brand name products. Monroe(R) ride control products and Walker(R) emission control products, which have been offered to consumers for over 50 years, are two of the most recognized brand name products in the automotive parts industry. We continue to emphasize product value differentiation with these brands and our other primary brands, including: - The Monroe Reflex(R) shock absorber which features an Impact Sensor(TM) device to maintain better tire-to-road contact and improve handling and safety under rough road conditions; 17 - The Monroe Sensa-Trac(R) line of shock absorbers, that has been enhanced by the SafeTech(TM) system technology which incorporates a fluon banded piston to improve performance and durability; - Walker's Quiet-Flow(R) muffler, which features an open flow design that increases exhaust flow, improves sound quality and significantly reduces exhaust back pressure when compared to other replacement mufflers; - Rancho(R) ride control products for the high-performance light truck market; - DynoMax(R) high-performance emission control systems; - Walker Perfection(TM) catalytic converters; - Clevite(R) Elastomers elastomeric vibration control components, which are primarily rubber products used to reduce vibration through "cushioning" a connection or contact point; - DNX(TM) sport tunes cars with performance exhaust and adjustable suspension systems; and - In European markets, Walker(TM) and Aluminox Pro(TM) mufflers. We are capitalizing on our brand strength by incorporating newly acquired product lines within existing product families. We believe brand equity is a key asset in a time of customer consolidation and merging channels of distribution. Our plans to expand our aftermarket business are focused on four key marketing initiatives: new product introductions; building customer and industry awareness of the maintenance, performance and other benefits of ensuring that a vehicle's ride control systems are in good working condition; adding coverage to current brands; and extending our brands and aftermarket penetration to new product segments. For example, we are extending our line of car appearance products -- which we introduced in 2004 under the DuPont(TM) brand pursuant to a development, manufacturing and sales agreement with DuPont -- to include new exterior and interior surface protection products and will introduce these products in 2006. In addition, Monroe(R)Dyanmics and Ceramic Disc brake pads were introduced regionally in 2005, and are being expanded nationally in 2006. Monroe also introduced our first Reflex Mono-tube for light trucks in the second half of 2005. These provided OE style coverage for many high profile light truck and SUV's that are equipped by OEMs with mono-tube product. We also created the Monroe(R) 50,000 mile replacement campaign to help increase customer and industry awareness. The campaign is being advertised via radio and outdoor billboards throughout the United States and Canada stating "Monroe(R) Recommends Replacing Your Shocks and Struts at 50,000 Miles." We will continue to carry that message to consumers and the trade in 2006, again utilizing billboards, radio spots and ads in both trade and consumer magazines. We are exploring a number of opportunities to extend our existing well-known brands, such as Monroe(R), and our product line generally, to aftermarket product segments not previously served. We believe that, when combined with our expansive customer service network, these initiatives will yield incremental aftermarket revenues. ACHIEVE GREATER CONTENT PER VEHICLE As a result of increasing emissions standards and the introduction of multiple catalytic converters and heat exchangers per vehicle, we believe that available emission control content per light vehicle will rise over the next several years. We believe that consumers' greater emphasis on automotive safety could also allow available ride control content per light vehicle to rise. In addition, advanced technologies and modular assemblies represent an opportunity to increase vehicle content. For example, our innovative CES system, which we supply on several Volvo and Audi passenger cars, increases our content revenues five-fold compared to a standard shock offering. We plan to take advantage of these trends by leveraging our existing position on many top-selling vehicle platforms and by continuing to enhance our modular/systems capabilities. 18 EXECUTE FOCUSED TRANSACTIONS In the past, we have been successful in identifying and capitalizing on strategic acquisitions and alliances to achieve growth. Through these acquisitions and alliances, we have (1) expanded our product portfolio; (2) realized incremental business with existing customers; (3) gained access to new customers; and (4) achieved leadership positions in new geographic markets. We have developed a strategic alliance with Futaba, a leading exhaust manufacturer in Japan that also includes a joint venture operation in Burnley, England. We also have an alliance with Hitachi (as successor to Tokico Ltd. following its acquisition of Tokico), a leading Japanese ride control manufacturer. These alliances help us grow our business with Japan-based OEMs by leveraging the geographical presence of each partner to serve Japan-based global platforms. We have established a presence in Thailand through a joint venture that supplies exhaust components for GMIsuzu. Our joint venture operations in Dalian and Shanghai, China have established us as one of the leading exhaust suppliers in the rapidly growing Chinese automotive market. We also operate joint ventures with Eberspacher International GmbH to supply emission control products and systems for luxury cars produced by BMW and Audi in China, and with Chengdu Lingchuan Mechanical Plant to supply emission control products and systems for various Ford platforms produced in China. We recently announced that we are expanding our operations in China with investment in both manufacturing and engineering facilities. We are scheduled to open our first solely-owned operation in China, an elastomer manufacturing facility in Suzhou, in June 2006. In addition, we are extending our joint venture with Shanghai Tractor and Engine Company, a subsidiary of Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp., by establishing an engineering center to develop automotive exhaust products. The engineering center is scheduled to open at the end of 2006. Finally, we have agreed to increase our ownership stake in the Beijing Monroe Shock Absorber Co. Ltd. (a joint venture with Beijing Automotive Industry Corp.) from its current 51 percent to 65 percent. This increased investment is subject to governmental approval. In February 2005, we acquired substantially all the exhaust assets, and assumed certain related liabilities of, Gabilan Manufacturing Inc., a manufacturer of exhaust systems for Harley-Davidson Motorcycles. The acquisition, our first in over five years, represents an example of our strategy to grow through niche opportunities. Where appropriate, we intend to continue to pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions and other transactions that complement or enhance our existing products, technology, systems development efforts, customer base and/or domestic or international presence. We strive to align with strong local partners to help us further develop our leadership in systems integration and to penetrate international markets. In addition, we align with companies that have proven products, proprietary technology, research capabilities and/or market penetration to help us achieve further leadership in product offerings, customer relationships, and systems integration and overall presence. GROWTH IN ADJACENT MARKETS One of our goals is to apply our existing design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities to penetrate a variety of adjacent markets and to achieve growth in higher-margin businesses. For example, we are aggressively leveraging our technology and engineering leadership in emission and ride control into adjacent markets, such as the heavy-duty market for trucks, buses, agricultural equipment, construction machinery and other commercial vehicles. As an established leading supplier of heavy-duty ride control and elastomer products, we are already serving customers like Volvo Truck, Mack, Navistar International, Freightliner and Scania. We also see tremendous opportunity to expand our presence in the heavy-duty market with our emission control products and systems, having recently entered this market in both North America and Europe with diesel technologies that will help customers meet environmental requirements. 19 IMPROVE EFFICIENCY AND REDUCE COSTS We are a process-oriented company and have implemented and are continuing to implement several programs designed to improve efficiency and reduce costs, including: - In February 2006, we announced a workforce reduction at certain of our global locations as part of our ongoing effort to reduce our cost structure. The plan contemplates a reduction in force of approximately 100 employees during the first quarter of 2006. We expect to record a pre-tax charge of approximately $4 million to $5 million during the first quarter of 2006 for severance and other benefits related to these reductions in force, substantially all of which will be paid in cash. These charges are in addition to other customary quarterly restructuring charges that we may incur during the quarter. - We are successfully completing the workforce reduction announced in October 2004 which will eliminate up to 250 salaried positions worldwide. The majority of the eliminated positions are at the middle and senior management levels. As of December 31, 2005, we have incurred $23 million in severance costs. We anticipate incurring an additional $2 million of costs associated with this action. Of the total $23 million in severance costs incurred to date, $21 million represents cash payments with the remainder accrued in other short-term liabilities. - We have successfully completed Project Genesis, our primary initiative for improving global manufacturing and distribution efficiency. Since launching Project Genesis in December 2001, we have reduced excess manufacturing capacity and costs. We have closed eight facilities and improved workflow at 20 plants worldwide. - We anticipate long-term savings through our Six Sigma program, a methodology and approach designed to minimize product defects and improve operational efficiencies. - We have implemented a Lean manufacturing program to reduce costs, inventories and customer lead times while improving delivery. - We have adopted the Business Operating System ("BOS"), a disciplined system to promote and manage continuous improvement. BOS focuses on the assembly and analysis of data for quick and effective problem resolution to create more efficient and profitable operations. - We are using Economic Value Added ("EVA(R)(1)"), a financial tool that more effectively measures how efficiently we employ our capital resources, and have linked the successful application of this management discipline to our incentive compensation program. In addition, we continue to work to reduce costs by standardizing products and processes throughout our operations; further developing our global supply chain management capabilities; improving our information technology; increasing efficiency through employee training; investing in more efficient machinery; and enhancing the global coordination of costing and quoting procedures, along with other steps to reduce administrative and operational costs and improve cost management. REDUCE BORROWINGS AND IMPROVE CASH FLOW We are focused on a core set of goals designed to reduce borrowings and improve cash flow: (i) continuing to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses plus engineering, research and development costs ("SGA&E") as a percentage of sales, while continuing to invest in sales and engineering; (ii) extracting significant cash flow from working capital initiatives; (iii) offsetting to the greatest extent possible pressures on overall gross margins in a challenging economic environment; and (iv) strengthening existing customer relationships and winning new long-term OE business. - --------------- 1 EVA is a registered trademark of Stern Stewart & Co. 20 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We estimate that we and our subsidiaries will make expenditures for plant, property and equipment for environmental matters of approximately $7 million in 2006 and approximately $3 million in 2007. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Environmental and Other Matters," and Note 12 to the financial statements of Tenneco Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries included under Item 8. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 19,000 employees of which approximately 52 percent are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 23 percent of our employees that are covered by collective bargaining agreements are also governed by European works councils. Several of our existing labor agreements in the United States and Mexico are scheduled for renegotiation in 2006, in addition to five agreements expiring in Europe covering plants in the Czech Republic, France, Belgium, Germany, and the United Kingdom. We regard our employee relations as generally satisfactory. OTHER The principal raw material utilized by us is steel. We obtain steel from a number of sources pursuant to various contractual and other arrangements. We believe that an adequate supply of steel can presently be obtained from a number of different domestic and foreign suppliers. However, we are actively addressing higher steels costs which are expected to continue through 2006. We hold a number of domestic and foreign patents and trademarks relating to our products and businesses. We manufacture and distribute our products primarily under the Walker(R) and Monroe(R) brand names, which are well-recognized in the marketplace and are registered trademarks. The patents, trademarks and other intellectual property owned by or licensed to us are important in the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. CHANGES IN CONSUMER DEMAND AND PRICES COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Demand for and pricing of our products are subject to economic conditions and other factors present in the various domestic and international markets where the products are sold. Demand for our OE products is subject to the level of consumer demand for new vehicles that are equipped with our parts. The level of new car purchases is cyclical, affected by such factors as interest rates, consumer confidence, patterns of consumer spending, fuel cost and the automobile replacement cycle. For example, we believe a key strength for our company is our supply of parts for many North American light trucks and SUVs, which are currently top sellers, but which consumers may not continue to prefer. Demand for our aftermarket, or replacement, products varies based upon such factors as the level of new vehicle purchases, which initially displaces demand for aftermarket products, the severity of winter weather, which increases the demand for certain aftermarket products, and other factors, including the average useful life of parts and number of miles driven. Further decreases in demand for automobiles and automotive products generally, or in the demand for our products in particular, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE SALES REPRESENTED BY OUR AWARDED BUSINESS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The realization of future sales from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the number of vehicles that our OE customers will actually produce, the timing of that production and the mix of options that our OE customers and consumers may choose. 21 Substantially all of our North American vehicle manufacturer customers have slowed or maintained at flat levels new vehicle production during the past several years. For example, production rates for 2003 were down three percent from 2002 and production rates for 2004 were down one percent from 2003. Production rates for 2005 were the same as for 2004. We remain cautious regarding production volumes for 2006 due to rising interest rates, oil and steel prices, current OE manufacturers' inventory levels and uncertainty regarding the willingness of OE manufacturers to continue to support vehicle sales through incentives. Given current economic conditions, we expect the North American light vehicle build to be approximately 15.8 million units in 2006, which is equal to 2005 levels. We also expect the European light vehicle production to remain relatively flat in 2006. In addition, our customers generally have the right to replace us with another supplier at any time for a variety of reasons and have increasingly demanded price decreases over the life of awarded business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will in fact realize any or all of the future sales represented by our awarded business. Any failure to realize these sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In many cases, we must commit substantial resources in preparation for production under awarded OE business well in advance of the customer's production start date. In certain instances, the terms of our OE customer arrangements permit us to recover these pre-production costs if the customer cancels the business through no fault of our company. Although we have been successful in recovering these costs under appropriate circumstances in the past, we can give no assurance that our results of operations will not be materially impacted in the future if we are unable to recover these types of pre-production costs related to OE cancellation of awarded business. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON LARGE CUSTOMERS FOR FUTURE REVENUE. THE LOSS OF ANY OF THESE CUSTOMERS OR THE LOSS OF MARKET SHARE BY THESE CUSTOMERS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. We depend on major vehicle manufacturers for a substantial portion of our net sales. For example, during 2005, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, and DaimlerChrysler accounted for 17 percent, 12 percent, 9 percent, and 9 percent of our net sales, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of our large-volume customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by reducing cash flows and our ability to spread costs over a larger revenue base. We may make fewer sales to these customers for a variety of reasons, including: (1) loss of awarded business; (2) reduced or delayed customer requirements; or (3) strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by the customers. Ford recently announced a plan to significantly reduce the number of its global suppliers. While we currently believe that our relationship with Ford will not be impacted by this plan, any significant reduction in sales to Ford could have a material adverse effect on us. During the past several years, General Motors, Ford and Daimler Chrysler have lost market share in the United States, primarily to Asian competitors. While revenue from Japanese automakers represented approximately 20 percent of our North American original equipment sales in 2005 and we are actively targeting Korean automakers, any further market share loss by these North American- and European-based automakers could, if we are unable to achieve increased sales to the Asian OE manufacturers, have a material adverse effect on our business. FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES FACING OTHER AUTOMOTIVE COMPANIES MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. A number of companies in the automotive industry are, and over the last several years have been, facing severe financial difficulties. As a result, there have been numerous recent bankruptcies of companies in the automotive industry, including the fall of 2005 bankruptcy of Delphi Corporation, one of the world's largest automotive parts suppliers. In addition, Dana Corporation filed bankruptcy in March 2006. Severe financial difficulties at any major automotive company could have a significantly disruptive effect on the automotive industry in general, including by leading to labor unrest, supply chain disruptions and weakness in demand. In particular, severe financial difficulties at any of our major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on us if we are unable to obtain on a timely basis the quantity and quality of components we require to produce our products. In addition, such financial difficulties at any of our major customers 22 could have a material adverse impact on us if such customer was unable to pay for the products we provide or we experienced a loss of, or material reduction in, business from such customer. THE HOURLY WORKFORCE IN THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY UNIONIZED AND OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY LABOR DISRUPTIONS. Although we consider our current relations with our employees to be good, if major work disruptions were to occur, our business could be adversely affected by, for instance, a loss of revenues, increased costs or reduced profitability. We have not experienced a material labor disruption in our workforce in the last ten years, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material labor disruption at one of our facilities in the future in the course of renegotiation of our labor arrangements or otherwise. In addition, substantially all of the hourly employees of North American vehicle manufacturers and many of their other suppliers are represented by the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America under collective bargaining agreements and vehicle manufacturers and such suppliers and their employees in other countries are also subject to labor agreements. A work stoppage or strike at the production facilities of a significant customer, at our facilities or at a significant supplier of ours or any of our customers could have an adverse impact on us by disrupting demand for our products and/or our ability to manufacture our products. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT INCREASES IN RAW MATERIALS PRICING, AND FURTHER CHANGES IN THE PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON US. Significant increases in the cost of certain raw materials used in our products, to the extent they are not timely reflected in the price we charge our customers or otherwise mitigated, could materially and adversely impact our results. For example, since 2004, we have experienced significant increases in processed metal and steel prices. High steel prices are expected to continue into the foreseeable future. We worked hard in 2005 and continue to work hard to address this issue by evaluating alternative materials and processes, reviewing material substitution opportunities, increasing component and assembly outsourcing to low cost countries and aggressively negotiating with our customers to allow us to recover these higher costs from them. In addition to these actions, we continue to pursue productivity initiatives and review opportunities to reduce costs through restructuring activities. The situation remains fluid as we continue to pursue these actions and, at this point, we cannot assure you that these actions and recent increases in new business awards will be effective in containing margin pressures from these significant raw materials price increases. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations -- Outlook" included in Item 7 for more information. THE CYCLICALITY OF AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTION AND SALES COULD CAUSE A DECLINE IN OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS. A decline in automotive sales and production would likely cause a decline in our sales to vehicle manufacturers, and could result in a decline in our results of operations and financial condition. The automotive industry has been characterized historically by periodic fluctuations in overall demand for vehicles due to, among other things, changes in general economic conditions and consumer preferences. These fluctuations generally result in corresponding fluctuations in demand for our products. Ford is forecast to produce 1.74 million vehicles in North America during the first six months of 2006, approximately 4.5 percent fewer than it produced in North America during the first six months of 2005. The highly cyclical nature of the automotive industry presents a risk that is outside our control and that cannot be accurately predicted. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY OF IMPROVING OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND GENERATING SAVINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO HELP OFFSET PRICING PRESSURES FROM OUR SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS. We have either implemented or plan to implement strategic initiatives designed to improve our operating performance. The failure to achieve the goals of these strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly since we rely on these initiatives to offset pricing pressures from 23 our suppliers and our customers, as described above. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement or realize the expected benefits of any of these initiatives or that we will be able to sustain improvements made to date. WE MAY INCUR MATERIAL COSTS RELATED TO PRODUCT WARRANTIES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS AND OTHER CLAIMS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. From time to time, we receive product warranty claims from our customers, pursuant to which we may be required to bear costs of repair or replacement of certain of our products. Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly requiring their outside suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and to be responsible for the operation of these component products in new vehicles sold to consumers. Warranty claims may range from individual customer claims to full recalls of all products in the field. We cannot assure you that costs associated with providing product warranties will not be material, or that those costs will not exceed any amounts reserved for them in our financial statements. For a description of our accounting policies regarding warranty reserves, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Critical Accounting Policies" included in Item 7. Additionally, we are subject to a variety of environmental and pollution control laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. Soil and groundwater remediation activities are being conducted at certain of our current and former real properties. We record liabilities for these activities when environmental assessments indicate that the remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. On this basis, we have established reserves that we believe are adequate for the remediation activities at our current and former real properties for which we could be held responsible. Although we believe our estimates of remediation costs are reasonable and are based on the latest available information, the cleanup costs are estimates and are subject to revision as more information becomes available about the extent of remediation required. In future periods, we could be subject to cash or non-cash charges to earnings if we are required to undertake material additional remediation efforts based on the results of our ongoing analyses of the environmental status of our properties, as more information becomes available to us. We also from time to time are involved in legal proceedings, claims or investigations that are incidental to the conduct of our business. Some of these proceedings allege damages against us relating to environmental liabilities, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, taxes, employment matters or commercial or contractual disputes. For example, we are subject to a number of lawsuits initiated by a significant number of claimants alleging health problems as a result of exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve significant numbers of individual claimants. Many of these cases also involve numerous defendants, with the number of defendants in some cases exceeding 200 defendants from a variety of industries. As major asbestos manufacturers or other companies that used asbestos in their manufacturing processes continue to go out of business, we may experience an increased number of these claims. We vigorously defend ourselves in connection with all of the matters described above. We cannot, however, assure you that the costs, charges and liabilities associated with these matters will not be material, or that those costs, charges and liabilities will not exceed any amounts reserved for them in our financial statements. In future periods, we could be subject to cash costs or non-cash charges to earnings if any of these matters is resolved unfavorably to us. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Environmental and Other Matters," included in Item 7 for further description. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE FAVORABLY IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AUTOMOTIVE PARTS INDUSTRY. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. Although the overall number of competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, we face significant competition within each of our major product areas. The principal competitive factors include price, quality, service, product performance, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, global presence and timely delivery. As a result, 24 many suppliers have established or are establishing themselves in emerging, low-cost markets to reduce their costs of production and be more conveniently located for customers. Although we are also pursuing a low-cost country production strategy and otherwise continue to seek process improvements to reduce costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete favorably in this competitive market or that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain sales or profit margins. CONSOLIDATION AMONG AUTOMOTIVE PARTS CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS COULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO COMPETE FAVORABLY. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected because the customer base for automotive parts is consolidating in both the original equipment market and aftermarket. As a result, we are competing for business from fewer customers. Due to the cost focus of these major customers, we have been, and expect to continue to be, requested to reduce prices as part of our initial business quotations and over the life of vehicle platforms we have been awarded. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate cost savings and operational improvements in the future that are sufficient to offset price reductions requested by existing customers and necessary to win additional business. Furthermore, the trend toward consolidation among automotive parts suppliers is resulting in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. If we cannot achieve cost savings and operational improvements sufficient to allow us to compete favorably in the future with these larger companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, sales. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY RESPOND TO THE CHANGING DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS FOR AFTERMARKET PRODUCTS. Major automotive aftermarket retailers, such as AutoZone and Advance Auto Parts, are attempting to increase their commercial sales by selling directly to automotive parts installers in addition to individual consumers. These installers have historically purchased from their local warehouse distributors and jobbers, who are our more traditional customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase aftermarket sales through increasing our sales to retailers. Furthermore, because of the cost focus of major retailers, we have occasionally been requested to offer price concessions to them. Our failure to maintain or increase aftermarket sales, or to offset the impact of any reduced sales or pricing through cost improvements, could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. LONGER PRODUCT LIVES OF AUTOMOTIVE PARTS ARE ADVERSELY AFFECTING AFTERMARKET DEMAND FOR SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS. The average useful life of automotive parts has steadily increased in recent years due to innovations in products and technologies. The longer product lives allow vehicle owners to replace parts of their vehicles less often. As a result, a portion of sales in the aftermarket has been displaced. This has adversely impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact, our aftermarket sales. Also, any additional increases in the average useful lives of automotive parts would further adversely affect the demand for our aftermarket products. Aftermarket sales represented approximately 23 percent of our net sales for 2005, as compared to 24 percent of our net sales for 2004. ANY ACQUISITIONS WE MAKE COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND SERIOUSLY HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We may, from time to time, consider acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers and suppliers. In addition, any acquisitions could involve the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we pursue or that such acquisitions will perform as 25 planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. Any such failure could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. We have manufacturing and distribution facilities in many regions and countries, including Australia, China, India, North America, Europe and South America, and sell our products worldwide. For 2005, approximately 54 percent of our net sales were derived from operations outside North America. International operations are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on those operations or our business as a whole, including: - exposure to local economic conditions; - exposure to local political conditions, including the risk of seizure of assets by foreign government; - exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events; - exposure to local public health issues and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions; - currency exchange rate fluctuations; - hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; - controls on the repatriation of cash, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; and - export and import restrictions. EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS COULD CAUSE A DECLINE IN OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. As a result of our international operations, we generate a significant portion of our net sales and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in that currency could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, where we have significantly more costs than revenues generated in a foreign currency, we are subject to risk if that foreign currency appreciates against the U.S. dollar because the appreciation effectively increases our cost in that country. From time to time, as and when we determine it is appropriate and advisable to do so, we will seek to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments. We cannot assure you, however, that we will continue this practice or be successful in these efforts. The financial condition and results of operations of some of our operating entities are reported in foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will have a negative impact on our reported revenues and operating profit while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies will have a positive effect on reported revenues and operating profit. For example, our European operations were positively impacted in 2002, 2003 and 2004 due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. However, in 2005, the dollar strengthened against the Euro which had a negative effect on our results of operations. Our South American operations were negatively impacted by the devaluation in 2000 of the Brazilian currency as well as by the devaluation of the Argentine currency in 2002. We do not generally seek to mitigate this translation effect through the use of derivative financial instruments. FURTHER SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN OUR STOCKHOLDER COMPOSITION MAY JEOPARDIZE OUR ABILITY TO USE SOME OR ALL OF OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS. As of December 31, 2005, we had a U.S. Federal tax net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards of $566 million available to reduce taxable income in future years, and these NOL carryforwards expire in various years through 2025. The federal tax effect of these NOL's is $198 million and is recorded as a 26 deferred tax asset on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. We also have state NOL carryforwards at December 31, 2005 of $720 million, which will expire in varying amounts from 2006 to 2025. The tax effect of the state NOL, net of a valuation allowance, is $27 million and is recorded as a deferred tax asset on our balance sheet at December 31, 2005. Our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards could become subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 382") if we undergo a majority ownership change. We would undergo a majority ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our common stock or are otherwise treated as five percent stockholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of a majority ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with the NOL carryforwards. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration of the respective NOL carryforwards. If we were to undergo a majority ownership change, we would be required to record a reserve for some or all of the asset currently recorded on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2005, we believe that there has not been a significant change in our ownership during the prior three years. We cannot, however, assure you that we will not undergo a majority ownership change in the future. Further, because an ownership change for federal tax purposes can occur based on trades among our existing stockholders, whether we undergo a majority ownership change may be a matter beyond our control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. NONE. 