D. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations We may not fully realize, or realize within the anticipated time frame, the benefits of our profit improvement initiatives. Case and New Holland merged operations on November 12, 1999 creating CNH. At the time of the merger, we formulated a merger integration plan for 1999 through 2004 to restructure and integrate the operations of the Case and New Holland businesses. Under this plan major structural changes were implemented, establishing the business platform for further improvements in our performance. Our goal is to build upon this platform and our strengths to achieve our strategic objectives. We have designed and are in the process of implementing a three-year plan to achieve these objectives. The key elements of our initiatives are to: • recapture our brand heritage; • strengthen our dealer and customer support; • refocus spare parts activities; • improve quality and reliability; • continue developing Financial Services; and • continue efforts to reduce costs. Through the accomplishment of these initiatives, by 2008, our goal is to close the performance gap compared to our best-in-class competitors. If we achieve the anticipated results of our actions, we believe we will have a substantially improved position in the global agricultural and construction equipment markets and in our financial position. Our failure to complete our initiatives could cause us to not fully realize our anticipated profit improvements, which could weaken our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our success depends on the implementation of new product introductions, which will require substantial expenditures. Our long-term results depend upon our ability to introduce and market new products successfully. The success of our new products will depend on a number of factors, including the economy, product quality, competition, customer acceptance and the strength of our dealer networks. As both we and our competitors continuously introduce new products or refine versions of existing products, we cannot predict the market shares our new products will achieve. Any manufacturing delays or problems with new product launches or increased warranty costs from new products could adversely affect our operating results. We have experienced delays in the introduction of new products in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays in the future. In addition, introducing new products could result in a decrease in revenues or an increase in costs from our existing products. You should read the discussion under the heading “