Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to compete successfully in our highly competitive industries. We face significant competition in the markets in which we do business and expect that this competition will intensify. The principal competitive factors in our three business segments are technological expertise, service quality, capacity, industry-specific experience, range of service offerings, the ability to develop and implement customized products and services and the cost of services. In addition, we believe there has been an industry trend to move agent-based operations towards offshore sites. We believe this trend will continue. This movement could result in excess capacity in the United States, where most of our current capacity exists. The trend towards international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuous technological changes may bring new and different competitors into our markets and may erode profits because of reduced prices. Our competitors’ products and services and pricing practices, as well as the timing and circumstances of the entry of additional competitors into our markets, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Communication Services segment’s business and growth depend in large part on the industry trend toward outsourcing. This trend may not continue, or may continue at a slower pace, as organizations may elect to perform these services themselves. In addition, our Communication Services segment faces risks from technological advances that we may not be able to successfully address. Our Conferencing Services segment faces technological advances and consolidation which have contributed to pricing pressures. Competition in the web and video conferencing services arenas continues to develop as new vendors enter the marketplace and offer a broader range of conferencing solutions through new technologies, including, without limitation, voice-over-internet-protocol, on-premise solutions, private branch exchange (“PBX”) solutions and equipment and handset solutions. Our Receivables Management segment competes with a wide range of purchasers of charged-off consumer receivables, third-party collection agencies, other financial service companies and credit originators and other owners of debt that fully manage their own charged-off consumer receivables. Some of these companies have substantially greater personnel and financial resources than we do. In addition, companies with greater financial resources than we have may elect in the future to enter the consumer debt collection business. Competitive pressures affect the availability and pricing of receivables portfolios as well as the availability and cost of qualified debt collectors. There are services in each of our business segments that are experiencing pricing declines. If we are unable to offset pricing declines through increased transaction volume and greater efficiency, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The United States Congress, the FCC, various states and other foreign jurisdictions have promulgated and enacted rules and laws that govern the methods and processes of making and completing telephone solicitations, sales and collecting of consumer debt and the provision of emergency communication services. As a result, we may be subject to proceedings alleging violation of these rules and laws in the future. Additional rules and laws may require us to modify our operations or service offerings in order to meet our clients’ service requirements effectively, and these regulations may limit our activities or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. There are numerous state statutes and regulations governing telemarketing activities that do or may apply to us. For example, some states place restrictions on the methods and timing of telemarketing calls and require that certain mandatory disclosures be made during the course of a telemarketing call. Some states also require that telemarketers register in the state before conducting telemarketing business in the state. Such registration can be time consuming and costly. Many states have an exemption for companies who are publicly traded or have securities listed on a national securities exchange. While we believe that we can operate our business in compliance with the various states’ registration requirements, there can be no assurance that we will meet all states’ requirements in a timely manner or that compliance with all such requirements would not be costly or time consuming. Any failure on our part to comply with the registration requirements applicable to companies engaged in telemarketing activities could have an adverse impact on our business. On January 15, 2008 the Universal Service Administrative Company’s (“USAC”) “Administrator’s Decision on Contributor Issue” concluded that InterCall’s audio bridging services are toll teleconferencing services and, consequently, InterCall is required to report its revenues to USAC and pay universal service on end user telecommunications revenues. USAC’s decision ordered InterCall to submit the appropriate forms, including previously due forms, within 60 days of the administrator’s decision. On February 1, 2007 InterCall filed an appeal of the USAC decision. (In the matter of InterCall, Inc Appeal of Decision of the USAC and Request for Waiver, CC Docket No. 96-45). On February 5, 2007 InterCall filed a petition to stay the USAC decision. (In the matter of InterCall Inc.’s Petition for Stay of the Decision of the Universal Service Administrative Company, WCB Docket No. 96-45). On March 17, 2008 the Wireline Competition Bureau staff informed the Company and USAC by phone that InterCall need not file the appropriate forms with USAC until written instructions are received from the FCC. If such filings are required by the FCC, the Company intends to comply with the filing requirements while continuing to pursue its appeal. We believe that we operate as a provider of unregulated information services. Consequently, we do not believe that we are subject to the FCC or state public utility commission regulations applicable to providers of traditional telecommunications services in the U.S. and responded to the FCC’s inquiry accordingly. We believe that we exercise reasonable efforts to monitor telecommunications laws, regulations, decisions and trends and to comply with any applicable legal requirements. However, if we fail to comply with any applicable government regulations, or if we are required to submit to the jurisdiction of such government authorities as a provider of traditional telecommunications services, we could be temporarily prohibited from providing portions of our services, be required to restructure portions of our services or be subject to ongoing reporting and compliance obligations, including being subject to litigation, fines, regulatory surcharge remittance requirements (past and/or future) or other penalties for any non-compliance. Pending and future litigation may divert management’s time and attention and result in substantial costs of defense, damages or settlement, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face uncertainties relating to the pending litigation described in “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and we may not ultimately prevail or otherwise be able to satisfactorily resolve this litigation. In addition, other material suits by individuals or certified classes, claims, or investigations relating to the same or similar matters as those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other aspects of our business, including our obligations to market additional products to our clients’ customers may arise in the future. Furthermore, we generally 14 Table of Contents indemnify our customers against third-party claims asserting intellectual property violations, which may result in litigation. Regardless of the outcome of any of these lawsuits or any future actions, claims or investigations relating to the same or any other subject matter, we may incur substantial defense costs and these actions may cause a diversion of management’s time and attention. Also, we may be required to alter our business practices or pay substantial damages or settlement costs as a result of these proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, certain of the outcomes of such litigation may directly affect our business model, and thus profitability. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize the use of our contact centers. Our profitability depends largely on how effectively we manage the use of our contact centers, which we refer to as capacity utilization. To the extent that we are not able to effectively utilize our contact centers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also consider opening new contact centers in order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects. However, additional centers may result in idle capacity until any new or expanded program is fully implemented. In addition, if we lose significant clients, if clients’ call volumes decline or if significant contracts are not implemented as anticipated, our operating results are likely to be harmed to the extent that we are not able to manage our call center capacity utilization by reducing expenses proportionally or successfully negotiating contracts with new clients to generate additional revenues at comparable levels. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain optimal contact center capacity in the future. If we are unable to integrate or achieve the objectives of our recent and future acquisitions, our overall business may suffer. Our business strategy depends on successfully integrating the assets, operations and corporate functions of businesses we have acquired, including those acquired in the recent acquisitions of CenterPost, TeleVox and Omnium, acquired in February, March and May 2007, respectively, and any additional businesses we may acquire in the future. The acquisition of additional businesses involves integration risks, including: • the diversion of management’s time and attention away from operating our business to acquisition and integration challenges; • the unanticipated loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the potential need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger company at businesses that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • the need to integrate accounting, information management, human resources, contract and intellectual property management and other administrative systems at each business to permit effective management; and • our entry into markets or geographic areas where we may have limited or no experience. We may be unable to effectively or efficiently integrate businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future without encountering the difficulties described above. Failure to integrate these businesses effectively could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to this integration risk, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to achieve the planned objectives of an acquisition. The inability to achieve our planned objectives could result from: • the financial underperformance of these acquisitions; 15 Table of Contents • the loss of key clients of the acquired business, which may drive financial underperformance; and • the occurrence of unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. Our ability to recover charged-off consumer receivables may be limited under federal and state laws. Federal and state consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations extensively regulate the relationship between debt collectors and debtors. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit card issuers may preclude us from collecting on charged-off consumer receivables we purchase if the credit card issuer previously failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional or more stringent requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer receivables. Any new laws, rules or regulations as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws may adversely affect our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, federal and state governments are considering, and may consider in the future, other legislative proposals that would further regulate the collection of consumer receivables. Any failure to comply with any current or future laws applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in the cost of voice and data services or significant interruptions in these services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on voice and data services provided by various telecommunications providers. Because of this dependence, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we have entered into long-term contracts with many of our telecommunications providers, there is no obligation for these vendors to renew their contracts with us or to offer the same or lower rates in the future. In addition, these contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. An adverse change in the pricing of voice and data services that we are unable to recover through the price of our services, or any significant interruption in voice or data services, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends on the experience and continuing efforts and abilities of our management team and on the management teams of our operating subsidiaries. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of our operations require specially trained employees. From time to time, we must recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate in order to keep pace with our clients’ demands and our resulting need for specially trained employees. If we are unable to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increases in labor costs and turnover rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Communication Services and Receivables Management segments are very labor intensive and experience high personnel turnover. Significant increases in the employee turnover rate could increase recruiting and training 16 Table of Contents costs and decrease operating effectiveness and productivity. Moreover, many of our employees are hired on a part- time basis, and a significant portion of our costs consists of wages to hourly workers. Increases in the minimum wage or labor regulation could increase our labor costs. In July 2007 the federal minimum wage rate increased and further increases are scheduled to take affect in 2008 and 2009. Increases in our labor costs, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we have operations in countries outside of the United States, we may be subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting these countries that could result in increased operating expenses and regulation. We operate or rely upon businesses in numerous countries outside the United States. We may expand into additional countries and regions. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: political and economic conditions, exposure to currency fluctuations, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and potential adverse tax consequences. If we cannot manage our international operations successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A large portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of one or more key clients would result in the loss of net revenues. Our 100 largest clients represented approximately 57% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 with one client, AT&T (formerly AT&T, Bell South, Cingular and SBC Communications), accounting for approximately 14% of our total revenue. Subject to advance notice requirements and a specified wind down of purchases, AT&T may terminate its contract with us with or without cause at any time. If we fail to retain a significant amount of business from AT&T or any of our other significant clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We serve clients and industries that have experienced a significant level of consolidation in recent years. Additional consolidation could occur in which our clients could be acquired by companies that do not use our services. The loss of any significant client would result in a decrease in our revenues and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The financial results of our Receivables Management segment depend on our ability to purchase charged-off receivable portfolios on acceptable terms and in sufficient amounts. If we are unable to do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to purchase charged-off consumer receivables from credit originators and other debt sellers on acceptable terms and in sufficient amounts, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The availability of portfolios that generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors both within and beyond our control, including: • competition from other buyers of consumer receivable portfolios; • continued sales of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios by credit originators; • continued growth in the number of industries selling charged-off consumer receivable portfolios; and • our ability to collect upon a sufficient percentage of accounts to satisfy our contractual obligations. Because of the length of time involved in collecting charged-off consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner. In our Receivables Management segment, we have entered into a number of forward-flow contracts. These contracts commit a third party to sell to us regularly, and commit us to purchase regularly, charged-off receivable 17 Table of Contents portfolios for a fixed percentage of their face amount. Consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if the fixed percentage price is higher than the market price we would have paid absent the forward-flow commitment. We plan to enter into similar contracts in the future, depending on market conditions. To the extent new or existing competitors enter into similar forward-flow arrangements, the pool of portfolios available for purchase may be diminished. Security and privacy breaches of the systems we use to protect personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our databases contain personal data of our clients’ customers, including credit card and healthcare information. Any security or privacy breach of these databases could expose us to liability, increase our expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches and deter our clients from selecting our services. Our data security procedures may not effectively counter evolving security risks, address the security and privacy concerns of existing or potential clients or be compliant with federal, state, and local laws and regulations in all respects. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts are generally not exclusive and typically do not provide for revenue commitments. We seek to sign multi-year contracts with our clients. However, our contracts generally enable the clients to unilaterally terminate the contract or reduce transaction volumes upon written notice and without penalty, oftentimes based on our failure to attain certain service performance levels. The terms of these contracts are often also subject to renegotiation at any time. In addition, most of our contracts are not exclusive and do not ensure that we will generate a minimum level of revenue. Many of our clients also retain multiple service providers with whom we must compete. As a result, the profitability of each client program may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout the various stages of a program. Our data and contact centers are exposed to interruption. Our outsourcing operations depend on our ability to protect our data and contact centers against damage that may be caused by fire, natural disasters, power failure, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, failures of our software, acts of sabotage or terror and other emergencies. In the past, natural disasters such as hurricanes have provided significant employee dislocation and turnover in the areas impacted. If we experience temporary or permanent employee dislocation or interruption at one or more of our data or contact centers through casualty, operating malfunction or other acts, we may be unable to provide the services we are contractually obligated to deliver. As a result, we may experience a reduction in revenue or be required to pay contractual damages to some clients or allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Any interruptions of this type could result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide our services to our clients, and our business interruption and property insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur. These interruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of terrorism or war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acts of terrorism or war could disrupt our operations. For example, our agent-based business may experience significant reductions in call volume during and following any significant terrorist event. These disruptions could also cause service interruptions or reduce the quality level of the services we provide, resulting in a reduction in our revenues. In addition, an economic downturn as a result of these activities could negatively impact the financial condition of our clients, which may cause our clients to delay or defer decisions to use our services or decide to use fewer of our services. As a result, war and terrorist attacks and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary information or technology. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary information and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and contract protection to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our information and technology. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our patents, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets or other 18 Table of Contents intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The steps we have taken to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information and technology or client data may be insufficient to protect us, and we may be unable to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation could harm any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary rights. In addition, because we operate in many foreign jurisdictions, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our technology and services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have asserted in the past and may, in the future, assert claims against us alleging that we are violating or infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Any claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent, license alternative technology from another party or reduce or modify our product and service offerings. In addition, litigation is time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Our business depends on our ability to keep pace with our clients’ needs for rapid technological change and systems availability. Technology is a critical component of our business. We have invested in sophisticated and specialized computer and telephone technology and we anticipate that it will be necessary for us to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to remain competitive. Our future success depends in part on our ability to continue to develop technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. If we are unable to complete future acquisitions, our business strategy and earnings may be negatively affected. Our ability to identify and take advantage of attractive acquisition or other business development opportunities is an important component in implementing our overall business strategy. We may be unable to identify, finance or complete acquisitions or to do so at attractive valuations. Risks Related to Our Outstanding Indebtedness On October 24, 2006, we completed a recapitalization of the Company. We financed the recapitalization in part along with a new $2.1 billion senior secured term loan facility (expanded to $2.4 billion in 2007), a new senior secured revolving credit facility providing financing of up to $250.0 million and the private placement of $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of 9.5% senior notes due 2014 and $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11% senior subordinated notes due 2016. Our current or future indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, senior notes and senior subordinated notes could impair our financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes and our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities documentation or the indentures that govern the senior notes and senior subordinated notes could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our current or future indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; 19 Table of Contents • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; • the debt services requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including those related to the senior notes and senior subordinated notes (the “notes”); • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our new senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • because we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, our debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our leverage will increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand adverse events in our business by limiting our financial alternatives; and • our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities and to plan for, or respond to, competition and changes in our business may be limited. Our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or result in modifications to our credit terms. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the senior notes and senior subordinated notes, and fund our other liquidity needs, and we may be forced to take other actions, which may not be successful, to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our other liquidity needs depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes, and to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and keep us in compliance with the covenants under our senior secured credit facilities or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. We cannot ensure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facilities or the indentures that govern the notes. Our senior secured credit facilities documentation and the indentures that govern the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. As a result, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or use the proceeds to meet our debt service or other obligations, and any proceeds that are available may not be adequate to meet any debt service or other obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 20 Table of Contents The notes and the related guarantees are effectively subordinated to all of our secured debt and if a default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds to fulfill our obligations under the notes and the related guarantees. The notes and the related guarantees are our and the guarantors’ unsecured obligations, respectively, but our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under its respective guarantee of our senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the stock of our material first-tier non-U.S. subsidiaries. The notes and the guarantees are effectively subordinated to all our and the guarantors’ secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. We are also permitted, subject to receipt of additional commitments from participating lenders and certain other conditions, to incur additional indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities in an aggregate amount of up to $365.0 million, plus the aggregate amount of principal payments previously made in respect of the term loan facility, which additional indebtedness has the same security and guarantees as the other indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities. In addition, the notes, subject to some limitations, permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness, and the notes and any related guarantees are effectively junior to any additional secured indebtedness we may incur. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure our secured indebtedness will be available to pay obligations on the notes only after all secured indebtedness, together with accrued interest, has been repaid in full from our assets. Likewise, because our senior secured credit facilities are secured obligations, our failure to comply with the terms of our senior secured credit facilities would entitle those lenders to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on substantially all of our assets which serve as collateral. In this event, our secured lenders would be entitled to be repaid in full from the proceeds of the liquidation of those assets before those assets would be available for distribution to other creditors, including holders of the notes. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims of the holders of the notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy such claims fully. The senior notes and senior subordinated notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness of our existing or future subsidiaries that do not become guarantors of the senior notes and senior subordinated notes. Holders of our notes will not have any claim as a creditor against any of our existing subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the notes or against any of our future subsidiaries that do not become guarantors of the notes. Indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will be effectively senior to claims of noteholders against those subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our non-guarantor subsidiaries collectively represented approximately 16.0% of our revenues (approximately 9.0% not including the revenues of non-guarantor receivables management subsidiaries or (“WAP”)), approximately 31.1% of our operating income (8.9% not including WAP), approximately 22.2% of our Adjusted EBITDA (approximately 9.1% not including WAP) and approximately 20.6% of our cash flows from operating activities (approximately (2.3%) not including WAP). At December 31, 2007, our non-guarantor subsidiaries collectively represented approximately 11.0% of our total assets (approximately 2.9% not including WAP) and had approximately $27.6 million of outstanding total liabilities, (approximately $20.9 million not including WAP) including trade payables, but excluding intercompany liabilities and non-recourse debt, all of which would have been structurally senior to the notes. While WAP is not a guarantor of the notes, it is contractually obligated to distribute its excess cash each month to us and its minority shareholder. Accordingly, we believe that presentation of the foregoing financial information of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, but excluding WAP, is helpful to noteholders in assessing the credit risk associated with the notes. 21 Table of Contents In addition, the indentures governing the notes, subject to some limitations, permit these subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness and do not contain any limitation on the amount of other liabilities, such as trade payables, that may be incurred by these subsidiaries. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the senior notes and senior subordinated notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior secured credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the agreements governing our indebtedness (including covenants in the indentures governing the notes and our senior secured credit facilities documentation), we could be in default under the terms of those agreements. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes and senior subordinated notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient funds. Further, we are contractually restricted under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities, and may be restricted under the terms of other future senior indebtedness, from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to repurchase notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our senior secured credit facilities. In addition, the indenture governing the senior notes does not permit us to repurchase the tendered senior subordinated notes upon a change of control until all senior notes tendered have been repurchased, which increases the possibility that we will not have the funds necessary to repurchase all tendered senior subordinated notes. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indentures governing the notes and a cross-default under our senior secured credit facilities. Our senior secured credit facilities documentation also provides that a change of control, as defined in such documentation, will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to repurchase the notes, and reducing the practical benefit of the offer-to-purchase provisions to the holders of the notes. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities have the discretion to release the guarantors under our senior secured credit facilities in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the senior notes and senior subordinated notes. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities release a guarantor from its guarantee of obligations under our senior secured credit facilities documentation and the guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our senior secured credit facilities or any of our or any other guarantor’s other indebtedness, then the guarantee of the notes by such guarantor will be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the notes 22 Table of Contents or the trustee under the indentures governing the notes. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities have the discretion to release the guarantees under our senior secured credit facilities in a variety of circumstances. A holder of notes will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 