ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need additional financing to execute our business plan and fund operations, which additional financing may not be available. We have very limited funds and we may not be able to execute our current business plan and fund business operations long enough to increase profitability. Our ultimate success may depend upon our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. Additional financings through equity investments are likely to continue to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may likewise be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the environmental industry, and the fact that we are not profitable, which could impact the availability and cost of future financings. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We may be negatively affected by the changing economic conditions including the current economic downturn. A general downturn in economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation and higher interest rates, could have an adverse effect on our business. To the extent our financing involves high degrees of leverage; recessions, operating problems and other general business and economic risks may have a more pronounced effect on our profitability or survival. Also, increased interest rates increase our interest expenses. In the event we cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet debt service, we may suffer a partial or total loss of capital invested in the Company. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management and sales personnel. The loss, or any inability to attract or retain key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and motivate our executives, as well as other employees and independent contractors, through competitive salaries, commissions and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees and contractors or hire or attract new key employees and contractors. As a result, if key personnel were to leave or cease to be available or our ability to utilize their skills, contacts and other resources impeded, we could face substantial difficulty in finding qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. The environmental testing industry is extremely competitive. We will compete with a number of companies that are engaged in business similar to ours. Our competitors have been in business far longer than we have and they may have significantly greater financial stability, access to capital markets and name recognition. Unanticipated shortfalls in expected revenues due to price competition or inadequate supply of raw materials would negatively impact our financial results and harm our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in this industry. 5 Risks Relating to Our Organization We are subject to the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws, which can be expensive. We are a public reporting company and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act and other federal and state securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We incur significant costs for preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders. It is time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications required by that Act, if applicable. Failure to achieve and maintain effective disclosure controls or internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results timely and accurately. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal controls. As a result of these deficiencies, we must perform additional analysis and other post-closing procedures to insure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles. As a result, we will incur expenses and devote significant management resources to this review process. Furthermore, effective internal controls and procedures are necessary for us to continue to provide reliable financial reports. If we continue to have material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports and our business and operating results could be harmed. Public company compliance requirements may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with the new rules and regulations increases our operating costs and makes certain activities more time consuming and costly than if we were not a public company. As a public company, these new rules and regulations make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. Our largest stockholders can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of our other stockholders. Our largest stockholders, some of whom are key employees or consultants to us, own a substantial number of shares of our common stock. Additionally, their holdings may be supplemented in the event that they exercise any of the warrants they may hold or in the future be granted, or exercise any conversion privilege under any convertible debt securities held or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. The interests of such persons may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, in addition to their positions with us, such persons will have significant influence over and control all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. In addition, such persons’ stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 6 Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · changes in our industry; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to obtain working capital financing; · additions or departures of key personnel; · limited “public float”, in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales, could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results that fall below expectations; · loss of any strategic relationship; · regulatory developments; · economic and other external factors; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. There is currently no liquid trading market for our common stock and we cannot ensure that one will ever develop or be sustained. To date there has been no liquid trading market for our common stock. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our common stock might become. Although we are not presently eligible, we intend to apply for listing of our common stock on either The Nasdaq Capital Market or other national securities exchanges if and when we meet the requirements for listing. We cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy such listing standards or that our common stock will be accepted for listing on any of these exchanges. Should our company fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of the exchanges, or our common stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remain listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or suspended from the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading price of our common stock could suffer and the trading market for our common stock may be less liquid and our common stock price may be subject to increased volatility. Our common stock is deemed a “penny stock”, which may make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The penny stock rules apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share or that have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. Insofar as many of our shares are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of those shares. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or upon the expiration of any holding period under Rule 144, or expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or conversion of our convertible securities, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Recent revisions to Rule 144 shortened the holding period under Rule 144, as a result of which the overhang period arises earlier than would previously have been the case. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None ITEM 