Item 1A. Risk Factors CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS We are affected by a wide range of factors which could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could cause operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us elsewhere in this report. Below are some of these material factors: No Assurances of Future Profitability; Losses from Operations; Need for Capital. We incurred net losses of $6.6 million, $4.9 million, and $1.5 million, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006, and 2005. In order to generate profits in the future, we need to reduce cash and non-cash interest expense, increase volumes of products and services sold at profitable margins, control costs and generate sufficient cash flow to support working capital and debt service requirements. There is no assurance that our management will be able to accomplish our business plan or continue to raise capital at terms that are acceptable to us in order to support working capital requirements or debt service shortfalls during any business downturns. At June 30, 2007, our working capital was $168,000, as compared to $1.3 million on June 30, 2006. During fiscal year 2007, we raised capital by completing a $3.3 million private placement of our equity securities in February 2007, we received proceeds from warrant exercises, and we experienced an increase in our net margin per gallon, as compared to the same period in the prior year. These sources of capital were used in the development and maintenance of our improved corporate infrastructure, the continued efforts to integrate our recent acquisitions, capital expenditures related to the implementation of our new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system, corporate office leasehold improvements and other capital purchases, and principal payments on the Company’s secured notes. In the future, we may need to raise additional capital to fund new acquisitions, the expansion or diversification of existing operations or additional debt repayment. While we believe that we will be able to obtain needed capital, there can be no assurance that we will do so or that it can be obtained on terms acceptable to us. Trading Market for Our Common Stock. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol FUEL. During the past few years, our stock has sometimes traded in large daily volumes and other times at much lower volumes, in many cases at wide price variances. This volatility, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares at a predictable price or at specific times, is generally due to factors beyond our control. Quarterly and annual operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or other developments affecting us could also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Growth Dependent Upon Future Expansion; Risks Associated With Expansion into New Markets. While we intend to continue to expand through acquisitions, our growth will also depend upon the ability to achieve greater penetration in existing markets and to successfully enter new markets in both additional major and secondary metropolitan areas. Such organic expansion will largely be dependent on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our services and products to potential new customers, successfully establish and operate new locations, hire, train and retain qualified management, operating, marketing and sales personnel, finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital requirements, secure reliable sources of product supply on a timely basis and on commercially acceptable credit terms, and successfully manage growth by effectively supervising operations, controlling costs and maintaining appropriate quality controls. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully expand our operations into new markets. Acquisition Availability; Integrating Acquisitions. Our future growth strategy involves the acquisition of complementary businesses, such as wholesale fuel or petroleum lubricants marketers and distributors; wholesale fuel and other commercial mobile fueling companies; and transportation logistics services businesses. It is not certain that we will be able to identify or make suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms or that any future acquisitions will be effectively and profitably integrated into our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including timely and cost effective integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; potential write downs of acquired assets; retention of key personnel of the acquired business; potential disruption of existing business; maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; additional capital needs; the effect of changes in management on existing business relationships; and profitability and cash flows generally. 8 Need to Maintain Effective Internal Controls. In fiscal 2006, our management identified significant deficiencies related to policies and procedures to ensure accurate and reliable interim and annual consolidated financial statements that, considered together, constituted a material weakness in our internal controls. Even though we have taken the necessary steps to correct the identified material weakness and have not identified any material weakness for fiscal 2007, it is possible that, considering our size, our limited capital resources and our need to continue to expand our business by acquisitions and diversification, we may identify another material weakness in our internal controls in the future. Moreover, even if we do not identify any material weakness or significant deficiencies, our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors or fraud because any control system, no matter how well designed, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the continued services and efforts of Richard E. Gathright, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and on those of other key executive personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Gathright or other executive personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, operating, marketing, sales and financial personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel on terms satisfactory to us. We have entered into written employment agreements with Mr. Gathright and certain other key executive personnel. While Mr. Gathright’s employment agreement provides for automatic one-year extensions unless either party gives notice of intent not to renew prior to such extension, there is no assurance that Mr. Gathright’s services or those of our other executive personnel will continue to be available to us. Fuel Pricing and Supply Availability; Effect on Profitability. Diesel fuel and gasoline are commodities that are refined and distributed by numerous sources. We purchase the fuel delivered to our customers from multiple suppliers at daily market prices and in some cases qualifies for certain discounts. We monitor fuel prices and trends in each of our service markets on a daily basis and seek to purchase our supply at the lowest prices and under the most favorable terms. Commodity price risk is generally mitigated since we purchase and deliver our fuel supply daily and generally utilize cost-plus pricing when billing our customers. If we cannot continue to utilize cost-plus pricing when billing our customers, margins would likely decrease and losses could increase. We have not engaged in derivatives or futures trading to hedge fuel price movements. In addition, diesel fuel and gasoline may be subject to supply interruption due to a number of factors, including natural disasters, refinery and/or pipeline outages, labor disruptions and supplier credit limitations. The reduction of available supplies or our access to those supplies could impact our ability to provide commercial mobile and bulk fueling, and emergency response services and impact profitability. Risks Associated with Customer Concentration; Absence of Written Agreements. Although we provide services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few of our larger customers. While we have formal, length of service written contracts with some of these larger customers, such agreements are not customary and we do not have them with the majority of our customers. As a result, most of our customers can terminate our services at any time and for any reason, and we can similarly discontinue service to those customers. We may also discontinue service to a customer if changes in the service conditions or other factors cause us not to meet our minimum level of margins and rates, and the pricing or delivery arrangements cannot be re-negotiated. As a result of this customer concentration and the absence of written agreements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our larger customers were lost or if we were to experience a high rate of service terminations of our other customers. Management of Growth; Accounting and Information Technology Systems Implementation. Our future growth strategy requires effective operational, financial and other internal systems, and the ability to attract, train, motivate, manage and retain our employees. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, results of operations will be adversely affected. In particular, our results of operations will be influenced by the redesign and implementation of our accounting and information technology systems. While in the short run, the costs of that redesign and implementation have increased our expenses and adversely affected our results of operations, we expect that, with the implementation completed, it will help reduce operating costs and improve our ability to effectively manage our business and integrate acquisitions. There can be no assurance, however, that such redesign and implementation will be completed as planned, or that it will have the intended results. 9 Competition. We compete with other service providers, including several large regional providers and numerous small, local independent operators, who provide some or all of the same services that we offer to our customers. In the mobile fueling area, we also compete with retail fuel marketing, since fleet operators have the option of fueling their own equipment at retail stations and at other third-party service locations such as card lock facilities. Our ability to compete is affected by numerous factors, including price, the complexity and technical nature of the services required, delivery dependability, credit terms, the costs incurred for non-mobile fueling alternatives, service locations as well as the type of reporting and invoicing services provided. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully as a result of these or other factors. Operating Risks May Not Be Covered by Insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing and transporting diesel fuel and gasoline, which are classified as hazardous materials. We maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverages and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal and property damage arising in the ordinary course of business; that we will be able to maintain acceptable levels of insurance; or that insurance will be available at economical prices. Governmental Regulation. Numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including those relating to protection of the environment and worker safety, affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements in the future without incurring substantial costs or otherwise adversely affecting our operations. Changes in Environmental Requirements. We expect to generate future business by converting certain fleet operators, currently utilizing underground fuel storage tanks for their fueling needs, to commercial mobile fueling. The owners of underground storage tanks have been required to remove or retrofit those tanks to comply with technical regulatory requirements pertaining to their construction and operation. If other more economical means of compliance are developed or adopted by owners of underground storage tanks, the opportunity to market our services to these owners may be adversely affected. Terrorism and Warfare in the Middle East May Adversely Affect the Economy and the Price and Availability of Petroleum Products. Terrorist attacks, as well as the continuing political unrest and warfare in the Middle East, may adversely impact the price and availability of fuel, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact of terrorism on the oil industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets, the sources of our products, and our infrastructure facilities or our suppliers could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport fuel if the means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipelines, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity following a terrorist attack could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also impair our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity or further instability in the Middle East could also lead to increased volatility in fuel prices, which could adversely affect our business generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 10 Item 