Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating WorldHeart and our common shares. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider not material may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the events described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is highly risky. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, before you decide whether to buy our common stock. We believe the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant risks we face. If any of the following events actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger On March 29, 2012, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Heartware. Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Heartware will either issue, and stockholders of WorldHeart will receive, shares of Heartware common stock or cash, at Heartware’s election, with the aggregate value of approximately $8.0 million at closing. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, WorldHeart will merge with and become a subsidiary of Heartware. We currently plan to complete the proposed mergers during the second quarter of 2012. However, we can neither assure you that the merger will be completed nor can we predict the exact timing of the completion of the merger because it is subject to governmental review process and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The merger is intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under the provisions of Section 368(a) of the US Tax Code if Heartware elects to purchase the Company with stock. The merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders. There are many conditions to the completion of the merger and we cannot assure you that the merger will be completed. There are many conditions to our and Heartware’s obligations to complete the merger. Many of these conditions are beyond our and Heartware’s control. For example, we must obtain stockholder approval of the merger. Additionally, as a condition to our obligation to complete the mergers, Heartware must register shares of its common stock prior to the transaction closing. Even if shareholder and regulatory approvals are obtained, any federal, state or foreign governmental agency or private person may challenge the merger at any time before or after its completion. We cannot assure you that the merger will be completed. Failure to complete the merger could adversely affect WorldHeart’s stock price and WorldHeart’s future business and operations. The merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including approval by WorldHeart stockholders, and neither WorldHeart nor Heartware can assure you that the merger will be completed. In the event that the merger is not consummated, WorldHeart may be subject to many risks, including the costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and advisory fees, which must be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger is not approved by stockholders, WorldHeart will need to pursue other 10 Table of Contents strategic alternatives or liquidation, and the market price of WorldHeart common stock could decline. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Heartware is entitled to a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, nontransferable license, under certain WorldHeart patents, subject to the payment of a one-time license fee equal to $500,000. We may need to raise additional capital to support our operations and in order to continue as a going concern if we don’t successfully complete the merger. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least December 31, 2012 and we are exploring strategic alternatives as evidenced by our proposed acquisition with Heartware. Our restructuring measures implemented to date and any future transactions may disappoint investors and further depress the price of our common stock and the value of an investment in our common stock, thereby limiting our ability to raise additional funds or consummate a strategic transaction should we not complete the merger with Heartware. We will require substantial funds to conduct research and development activities if we fail to complete the Heartware merger or if we fail consummate any other strategic transaction. Our ability to conduct the required development activities related to current product candidates will be significantly limited if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital. We may seek to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. We do not know, however, whether additional financing will be available when needed, whether it will be available on favorable terms or whether it will be available at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing also may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We will require significant capital investment to continue our product development programs and to bring future products and product enhancements to market, and if adequate funding is not available, our financial condition will be adversely affected and we may have to further curtail or eliminate our development programs and significantly reduce our expenses or be forced to cease operations. Our investment of capital has been and will continue to be significant. In July 2011, we ended our efforts to commercialize the Levacor VAD and are focusing our resources in developing our smaller, next generation miniature MiFlow and PediaFlow VADs. Developing our technology, future products and continued product enhancements, including those of the MiFlow and PediaFlow VADs and other technologies, requires a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research and clinical trials necessary for such development and regulatory approval. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, potential products or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. In addition, given our limited cash, we may be required to further reduce operating expenses, including but not limited to, reductions in salaries and/or elimination of employees and consultants or cessation of operations. We restructured our operations in February 2012 and reduced our workforce by 77%. Additionally, we suspended further development efforts on the PediaFlow VAD and have reduced the scope of the MiFlow VAD development due to financial constraints. We believe that cash on hand will be sufficient to support our planned operations through 2012. However, our actual needs will depend on numerous factors, including the progress and scope of our internally funded research and development activities. Our actual capital needs may substantially exceed our anticipated capital needs and we may have to substantially modify or terminate current and planned development needs, restructure operations further and reduce costs, enter into strategic relationships or merge or be acquired by another company. As a result, our business may be materially harmed, our stock price may be adversely affected, and our ability to raise additional capital may be impaired. In addition, we are continuing to explore strategic and financing alternatives, including equity financing transactions, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate collaborations. As a result of these efforts, in March 2012, we signed a Merger Agreement with Heartware. The inability to obtain additional financing or enter into 11 Table of Contents strategic relationships or mergers and acquisitions when needed will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain any sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all, or enter into strategic relationships or consummate our merger with Heartware. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital from any of these sources, we may need to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures. If we are not able to reduce or defer our expenditures, secure additional sources of revenue or otherwise secure additional funding, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and we may be forced to restructure further or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. We have had substantial losses since incorporation and expect to continue to operate at a loss while our products are under development, and we may never become profitable. Since our inception in 1996 through December 31, 2011, we have incurred cumulative losses of approximately $357.1 million, a significant portion of which relates to the costs of internally developed and acquired technologies. Our research and development expenses have increased over the past years, primarily due to our investment in the development programs for the Levacor VAD device. Although we ended our efforts to commercialize the Levacor VAD in July 2011, our research and development activities will likely result in additional significant losses in future periods as we focus our resources on developing our next generation miniature MiFlow VAD. These expenditures include costs associated with performing pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for our next generation products, continuing research and development, seeking regulatory approvals and, if we receive these approvals, commencing commercial manufacturing, sales and marketing of our products. We may not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to control costs. Managing costs is a key element of our business strategy. Consistent with this element of our strategy, in July 2011 we approved a restructuring plan that resulted in a reduction in our workforce of approximately 21 full-time positions, or approximately 42% of our workforce. In February 2012, we announced a restructuring plan that resulted in a further reduction of our workforce by 77 %. If we experience excessive unanticipated inefficiencies or incremental costs in connection with restructuring activities, such as unanticipated inefficiencies caused by reducing headcount, we may be unable to meaningfully realize cost savings and we may incur expenses in excess of what we anticipate. Either of these outcomes could prevent us from meeting our strategic objectives and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals, which will prevent us from selling our products and generating revenue. Most countries, including the United States and countries in Europe require regulatory approval prior to the commercial distribution of medical devices. In particular, implanted medical devices generally are subject to rigorous clinical testing as a condition of approval by the FDA and by similar authorities in Europe and other countries. The approval process is expensive and time consuming. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, government refusal to grant marketing approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The inability to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals for our products in the United States and the rest of the world will prevent us from selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we received IDE approval for our Levacor VAD BTT clinical study in January 2010, in July 2011, we ended our efforts to commercialize the Levacor VAD and are focusing our resources on developing and commercializing our smaller, next-generation MiFlow VAD. 12 Table of Contents The FDA or any other regulatory authority may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our applications, if and when made, and we may face significant difficulties and costs obtaining such approvals that could delay or preclude us from selling our products in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, such approvals, including the need for extended clinical trials or additional data as a prerequisite to approval, limitations on the intended use of our products, the restriction, suspension or revocation of any approvals obtained or any failure to comply with approvals obtained could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause us to change strategic direction. Our clinical trials may be subject to costly delays. In order to conduct clinical studies, we must generally receive an IDE approval for each indication from the FDA. Although we received IDE approval for our Levacor VAD BTT clinical study in January 2010, in July 2011, we ended our efforts to commercialize the Levacor VAD and are focusing our resources on developing and commercializing our smaller, next-generation MiFlow VAD. The completion of any of our future clinical studies may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including: • subjects may not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect and/or subjects may be lost to follow-up; • subjects may experience adverse side effects or events related or unrelated to our products; • clinical investigator experience may compel us to make device refinements to optimize the investigational device as each trial progresses; • third-party clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and practices or other third-party organizations may not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • after making design refinements, the FDA may need to review and approve them before we can reinitiate our clinical trial; • defects in our devices, product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices; • vendor supply issues, manufacturing delays, or technical challenges in the production of devices; • the interim results of any of our clinical studies may be inconclusive or negative; and • regulatory inspections of our clinical study centers or manufacturing facilities may require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us non-compliant with regulatory requirements. If we were to experience device issues or unanticipated clinical outcomes in the future with our MiFlow or PediaFlow VADs, the FDA might impose conditions or restrictions that could delay or stop any future clinical trial. Any such delays or additional restrictions could impact our ability to get our products approved or could cause material delay in the time period for approval which, in turn, would have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to change strategic direction. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes; if the data collected from pre-clinical and clinical trials of our product candidates is not sufficient to support approval by the FDA, our profitability and stock price could be adversely affected. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our devices, our devices are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. 13 Table of Contents Further, even if the results of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. The clinical trials of any of our future devices, such as the MiFlow or PediaFlow VADs, could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the device. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable devices would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. We are dependent on a limited number of product candidates. Our recent revenues have resulted primarily from sales of the Levacor VAD and related equipment in conjunction with our Levacor VAD BTT clinical trial. In July 2011, we ended our efforts to commercialize the Levacor VAD technology and are focusing our resources on developing and commercializing our smaller, next-generation MiFlow VAD. Therefore, we do not expect to receive any material revenue in the future from our Levacor VAD technology. Our future financial performance depends primarily on our ability to realign our resources to focus on the development, regulatory approval, introduction, customer acceptance and sales and marketing of our MiFlow VAD. Prior to any commercial use, our product candidates currently under development will require significant additional capital for research and development efforts, extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval. New product development is highly uncertain and unanticipated developments, clinical and regulatory delays, adverse or unexpected side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy could delay or prevent the commercialization of the MiFlow VAD. Any significant delays in, or premature termination of, future clinical trials of our product candidates under development would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause us to change strategic direction. Market acceptance of our technologies and product candidates is uncertain and our selling and distribution capability is limited and has been further reduced by our recent cost reduction initiatives. Our next-generation MiFlow and PediaFlow VADs must compete with other products as well as with other therapies for heart failure, such as medication, transplants, cardiomyoplasty and total artificial heart devices. In addition, although we believe that the Destination Therapy (DT) market opportunity for VADs is significant, adoption rates have continued to be slower than anticipated. We have a limited number of technical support personnel compared with other medical device companies in our industry segment, which may put us at a further competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. Failure of our products to achieve significant market acceptance due to competitive therapies and our very limited selling and distribution capability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition and technological obsolescence of our products. In addition to competing with other less-invasive therapies for heart failure, including medications and pacing technology, our products, if regulatory approvals are obtained, will compete with ventricular assist technology being developed and sold by a number of other companies. Competition from medical device companies and medical device subsidiaries of healthcare and pharmaceutical companies is intense and expected to increase. Most of our competitors have financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources substantially greater than ours. Third parties may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are safer, more effective and more timely than those developed or marketed by us which could render our technology and products non-competitive or obsolete, or we may not be able to keep pace with technological developments or our competitors’ time frames, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In addition, companies in similar businesses are entering into business combinations with one another, which may create more powerful or aggressive competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully as future markets evolve, and we may have to pursue additional acquisitions or other business combinations or strategic alliances. Increased competitive pressure could lead to lower sales and prices of our products, and this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are limitations on third-party reimbursement for the cost of implanting our devices. Individual patients will seldom be able to pay directly for the costs of implanting our devices. Successful commercialization of our products will depend in large part upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the treatment and medical costs from third-party payers, including governmental and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Consequently, we expect that our products will typically be purchased by healthcare providers, clinics, hospitals and other users who will bill various third-party payers, such as government programs and private insurance plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The coverage and the level of payment provided by third-party payers in the United States and other countries vary according to a number of factors, including the medical procedure, third-party payer, location and cost. In the United States, many private payers follow the recommendations for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which establish guidelines for governmental coverage of procedures, services and medical equipment. There can be no assurance with respect to any markets in which we seek to distribute our products that third-party coverage and reimbursement will be adequate, that current levels of reimbursement will not be decreased in the future or that future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis, particularly if the installed cost of our systems and devices should be more expensive than competing products or procedures. The unavailability of third-party payer coverage or the inadequacy of reimbursement would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights, including those relating to our MiFlow and PediaFlow VADs, are and will continue to be, a critical component of our success. The loss of critical licenses, patents or trade secret protection for technologies or know-how relating to our current product and our products in development could adversely affect our business prospects. Our business will also depend in part on our ability to defend our existing and future intellectual property rights and conduct our business activities free of infringement claims by third parties. We intend to seek additional patents, but our pending and future patent applications may not be approved, may not give us a competitive advantage and could be challenged by others. Patent proceedings in the United States and in other countries may be expensive and time consuming. In addition, patents issued by foreign countries may afford less protection than is available under United States intellectual property law, and may not adequately protect our proprietary information. Our competitors may independently develop proprietary non-infringing technologies and processes that are substantially similar to ours, or design around our patents. In addition, others could develop technologies or obtain patents, which would render our patents and patent rights obsolete. We could encounter legal and financial difficulties in enforcing our licenses and patent rights against alleged infringers. The medical device industry and cardiovascular device market, in particular, is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive and the outcome of this litigation is difficult to predict. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion for our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek additional licenses from third parties, pay damages and/or royalties that may be substantial or force us to redesign the related product. These alternatives may be 15 Table of Contents uneconomical or impossible. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if additional licenses are necessary they would be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including the MiFlow and PediaFlow VADs. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. We are exposed to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to our Levacor VAD device recipients in whom the devices have been implanted or by their families, and our future next generation products, if and when regulatory approval are received. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage held by us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain physician acceptance of our products, to expand our business or obtain insurance in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with our manufacturing operations, risks resulting from dependence on third-party vendors, and risks related to dependence on sole suppliers. The manufacture of our products is a complex operation involving a number of separate processes and components. Material costs are high and certain of the manufacturing processes involved are labor-intensive. The conduct of manufacturing operations is subject to numerous risks, including reliance on third-party vendors, unanticipated technological problems and delays. From time to time, we have experienced manufacturing challenges and delays, and we may experience manufacturing challenges and delays in the future. Any such challenges or delays, if significant, could negatively affect our ability to develop and deliver our products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including clinical trial enrollment, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we, or any entity manufacturing products or components on our behalf, may not be able to comply with applicable governmental regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections in connection with the manufacture of our products, which would have a material or adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, any of our own manufacturing problems or those of the third-party vendors we rely on could result in potential defects in our products, exposing us to product liability, claims and product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices. We often depend on single-source third-party vendors for several of the components used in our products. We do not have agreements with many of such single-source vendors and purchase these components pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. We are substantially dependent on the ability of these vendors to provide adequate inventories of these components on a timely basis and on favorable terms. These vendors also produce components for certain of our competitors, as well as other large customers, and there can be no assurance that such companies will have sufficient production capacity to satisfy 16 Table of Contents our inventory or scheduling requirements during any period of sustained demand, or that we will not be subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays. Although we believe that our relationships with our vendors are satisfactory and that alternative sources for the components we currently purchase from single-source suppliers are currently available, the loss of the services of such vendors or substantial price increases imposed by these vendors, in the absence of readily available alternative sources of supply, would have a material adverse effect on us. Failure or delay by such vendors in supplying components to us on favorable terms could also adversely affect our operating margins and our ability to develop and deliver our products on a timely and competitive basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the reductions in our workforce that we announced in 2011 and 2012, we may not be successful in retaining key employees and in attracting qualified new employees as may be required in the future. If we are unable to retain our management or to attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to rebuild our business will be seriously jeopardized. During 2011, we implemented restructurings resulting in the reduction of our workforce. As of December 31, 2011, we had only twenty-six employees. Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we implemented an additional restructuring in February 2012 and expect to only have six employees as of March 31, 2012. Competition among medical device companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals will be critical to our success if we rebuild our business. Our ability to recruit new employees may be diminished as a result of the restructurings we have implemented. If we rebuild our business and need to recruit qualified personnel, including scientific staff and scientific advisors, we may be unable to attract or retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. The value of our warrants outstanding from the October Offering is subject to potentially material increases and decreases based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. In October 2010, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock. Gross proceeds from the October Offering were approximately $25.3 million. We issued an aggregate of 11,850,118 newly-issued shares of common stock at an issue price of $2.135 per share. Additionally we issued warrants to purchase up to 11,850,118 additional shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.31 per share. We account for the warrants as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the warrants are included under other income (expense) in the Company’s statements of operations for each reporting period. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate fair value of the warrant liability included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet was $1.1 million. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the warrants. As a result, the option-pricing model requires the input of several assumptions, including the stock price volatility, share price and risk free interest rate. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. While the liability may only result from a change of control, including the proposed merger with Heartware we could, at that point in time, ultimately incur amounts significantly different than the carrying value. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: • our ability to effectively and efficiently develop our MiFlow VAD or other future product candidates; • Our ability to complete the proposed merger with Heartware; 17 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations and/or strategic changes by us, including the restructuring announced in July 2011 and February 2012 or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulation and changes in medical device reimbursement policies; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of devices that we and our competitors develop; • fluctuations in our operating results; and • general market conditions. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. As a small capitalization medical device company, the price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Any announcements concerning us or our competitors, clinical trial results, quarterly variations in operating results, introduction of new products, delays in the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors, acquisition or loss of significant customers, partners, distributors and suppliers, changes in earnings estimates or our ratings by analysts, regulatory developments, or fluctuations in the economy or general market conditions, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate substantially. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common shares will not decline below its current price or that it will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. Currently our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “WHRT”. We must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain the NASDAQ Capital Market quotation, including certain governance requirements and a series of financial tests relating to stockholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and stockholder, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. On August 15, 2011, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that for the last thirty consecutive business days the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810 (c)(3)(A), we were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until February 13, 2012, to regain compliance. On February 14, 2012, we received a second letter from the Staff notifying us of its determination that we had failed to regain compliance with the Rule by February 13, 2012, but that we met all other initial inclusion criteria for The NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810 (c)(3)(A), and the staff was provided a second 180 calendar days or until August 13, 2012, to regain compliance. If we do not regain compliance with Rule 5550(a)(2) by August 13, 2012, the Staff will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the Staff’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel, or the Panel. We would remain listed pending the Panel’s decision. There can be no assurance that, if we do appeal the delisting determination by the Staff to the Panel, that such appeal would be successful. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we have received notices from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating non-compliance with various listing maintenance requirements. On February 1, 2010, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter notifying us that we did not comply with the independent audit committee requirements set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605. On October 28, 2008 and August 31, 2009, we received letters from the NASDAQ Staff notifying us that we failed to maintain a minimum of 500,000 publicly held shares requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(4). We have had difficulties maintaining compliance in the past and we might not be able to maintain compliance with all minimum listing requirements in the future. If we do not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements 18 Table of Contents NASDAQ may take action to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. The sales of common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. Sales by these stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur in the future, could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership, following the completion of the July 2008 private placement and recapitalization, the January 2010 private placement and the October 2010 private placement, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. A significant amount of our common stock is held by a relatively small number of investors. After the completion of our financing in October 2010, three of our largest stockholders collectively beneficially owned approximately 69% of our common stock. These investors also have certain rights to designate members of our Board of Directors and may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including elections of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as the proposed acquisition of WorldHeart. This concentrated control may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt. Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions, along with Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, prohibiting certain business combinations with an interested stockholder, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. 