Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties. The accompanying risk factors should be read in conjunction with the information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have incurred substantial indebtedness. Amounts outstanding under the revolving facility, the Term A and Term B facilities at December 31, 2005 were $8,588,000; $6,242,000 and $49,000 respectively. The ratio of long term debt to total capitalization was 74% at December 31, 2005. This substantial indebtedness represents an element of risk in the event that our operating proceeds are insufficient to meet the principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. If our cash flow is insufficient to service our debt, the value of our equity could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our Loan Agreement may limit our operating and financial flexibility. All of our assets have been pledged as security for any borrowings under the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined). The Loan Agreement contains various business and financial covenants including among other things, a debt service ratio, a net worth covenant and a ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. Our failure to comply with our obligations under the Loan Agreement may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of the indebtedness under the Loan Agreement. We most likely would not have sufficient funds available to pay any accelerated indebtedness and cannot be certain that we would even have the ability to refinance accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms should an event of default occur. Changes in interest rates affect the interest rate payable under our Loan Agreement. We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations, primarily as a result of its Loan Agreement with rates which are based on a factor of the prime rate and thus subject to market fluctuations. We do not currently use derivative instruments to alter the interest rate characteristics of any debt. 9 General economic conditions and conditions in the retail environment could adversely affect our customers. Our largest customers are in the retail grocery business and we guarantee the sales to the majority of these customers. Accordingly, a slow down in the economy, especially in the retail market could directly affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. We are dependent on a few large customers. During 2005, our two largest customers represented 20% and 12% of its net sales. We do not have a long term contract with either of these customers and the loss of either customer would have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. Reduced spending by customers could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. While we enjoy very good relationships with our customers, there can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at the current levels. Orders from our customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or a delay in shipment of products to such customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Prices of our raw materials regularly fluctuate. The cost of our raw materials, especially herring, salmon and honey, represents a large portion of the cost to customers of our products. Customers may be unwilling to pay cost increases resulting from increases in raw material prices. A significant increase in the cost of our products which cannot be passed on to the customers could have an adverse affect on our revenues and profits. We have numerous competitors with financial and other resources greater than ours. We encounter competition from a number of competitors in the sale of our products. Many of our competitors have financial, product development and other resources greater than ours. Our inability to compete with our competitors effectively by developing and introducing innovative new products on a timely basis could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature. Many of our products are seasonal in nature causing a concentration of annual revenue generation to occur in a relatively short time span. Consequently, a loss of business during the peak business season, for any reason, may result in reduced full year revenues. We may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy. Our long term strategy includes a focus on acquisitions. We anticipate that significant future growth, if any, will be the result of the acquisition strategy and the successful integration of the acquired businesses into the existing operations. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with respect to any acquisitions and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing other potential acquisitions. Moreover, no assurances can be given that any completed acquisition will be beneficial to us or that the operations of an acquired entity will be successfully integrated into our operations. In addition, the costs associated with this strategy, means of financing any potential acquisitions, and consummation and integration of any potential acquisitions could significantly impact our financial and operating performance. We may experience significant volatility in our stock price which may negatively impact our ability to finance future growth. The trading price of our Common Stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. Our Common Stock has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in our Common Stock can have a disproportionately large impact on the quoted price of the Common Stock. We believe that our future growth through either current operations or any future acquisitions may be at least partially financed through the capital markets. Thus, fluctuations in our stock price will have an affect on the financing available. We are dependent on attracting and retaining key personnel. The Company believes the success of the organization is dependant upon the continued success of attracting and retaining talented personnel. The terms of our relationships with our suppliers could change. We do not have long term purchase agreements with any supplier. Our ability to continue to procure key materials at a competitive price is critical to future success. There can be no assurance that our current suppliers will not consolidate, go out of business, terminate their relationship with us or negatively change the terms upon which they service us. We purchase herring from one supplier. Other raw materials and co-packed products, such 10 as salmon, are purchased from a number of sources, allowing us to negotiate competitive prices. A consolidation of such suppliers could have an adverse affect on the price of our key materials. Trade accounts receivable potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk. We primarily provide credit in the normal course of business. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for potential credit losses, if necessary. However, actual write-offs could exceed those recorded allowances for doubtful accounts. Promotional programs offered to our customers may result in excessive cost. In accordance with industry practices, inventory is sold to customers often with the right to return or dispose if the merchandise is not resold prior to the expiration of its shelf life. In order to support our products, various marketing programs are offered to customers, which reimburse them for a portion, or all of their promotional activities related to our products. We regularly review and revise, when we deem necessary, estimates of costs to us for these marketing and merchandising programs based on estimates of what has been incurred by customers. Actual costs incurred by us may differ significantly if factors such as the level and success of the customers’ programs or other conditions differ from expectations. We could experience a material goodwill impairment. Our assets include a substantial amount of goodwill. This is a result of the acquisition of VSF. The value of this goodwill is assessed at least annually. If future operating performance at this business unit were to fall significantly below current levels, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment could result. Government regulations including any future claims could have a negative impact. Local authorities measure and assess the amount of certain pollutants discharged from the Chicago facility and entering the wastewater treatment system. These authorities have the power to fine or temporarily close that production facility. Furthermore, the quality of our products is regulated by the FDA and failure to comply with regulations could result in a product recall or temporary closure of a facility. Certain of our employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Our production employees at the Chicago facility, other than supervisors, are represented by the Local 546 United Food & Commercial Workers, International Union and maintenance employees are represented by the Local 399 International Union of Operating Engineers. Although we consider our labor relations to be good, a strike, walkout or lockout occurred for a significant period of time could have an adverse affect on results of operations. We could be exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulations of corporate governance and disclosure standards. The SEC has postponed, for one year, the compliance date for reporting on internal controls by non-accelerated filers. Despite this postponement, we expect to continue to spend an increased amount of management time and internal and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and American Stock Exchange rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control system and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our independent auditors. We will be documenting and testing internal control systems and procedures and considering improvements that could be necessary in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404 by the end of 2007. This process may require us to hire outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls over financial reporting, in the event that the chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent auditors determine that the controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investors’ perceptions of us could be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 