ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of business risks that may adversely impact its financial position or results of operations. These risks could make the Company’s common stock a speculative investment. The Company believes that the following factors represent the most significant risks to its future financial performance. We face risk from changes in interest rates. The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our net interest income. Changes in market interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the spread between our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. This may be due to the different maturities of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as an increase in the general level of interest rates. Changes in market interest rates also affect, among other things: • Our ability to originate loans; • The ability of our borrowers to make payments on their loans; • The value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of these assets; • The average life of our interest-earning assets; • Our ability to generate deposits instead of other available funding alternatives; and • Our ability to access the wholesale funding market. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We face risk from possible declines in the quality of our assets. Our financial condition depends significantly on the quality of our assets. While we have developed and implemented underwriting policies and procedures to guide us in the making of loans, compliance with these policies and procedures in making loans does not guarantee repayment of the loans. If the level of our non-performing assets rises, our results of operations and financial condition will be affected. A borrower’s ability to pay its loan in accordance with its terms can be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as a decrease in the borrower’s revenues and cash flows due to adverse changes in economic conditions or a decline in the demand for the borrower’s products and/or services. Our allowances for loan losses may be inadequate. We establish allowances for loan losses against each segment of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses equaled 0.7% of loans. Although we believe that we have established adequate allowances for loan losses as of December 31, 2005, the credit quality of our assets is affected by many factors beyond our control, including local and national economic conditions, and the possible existence of facts which are not known to us which adversely affect the likelihood of repayment of various loans in our loan portfolio and realization of the collateral upon a default. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that we will not sustain loan losses materially in excess of the allowance for loan losses. In addition, the FDIC and DFI, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and could require additional provisions for loan losses. Material future additions to the allowance for loan losses may also be necessary due to increases in the size and changes in the composition of our loan portfolio. Increases in our provisions for loan losses would adversely affect our results of operations. Economic conditions may decline. Our business is strongly influenced by economic conditions in our market area (principally Southern California) as well as regional and national economic conditions. Should the economic condition in these areas 22 Table of Contents deteriorate, the financial condition of our borrowers could weaken, which could lead to higher levels of loan defaults or a decline in the value of collateral for our loans. In addition, an unfavorable economy could reduce the demand for our loans and other products and services. We have a significant concentration of loans in California. At December 31, 2005, approximately 52% unpaid principal balance of our loans were collateralized by real estate located in California, and no more than 10% of our loans were collateralized in any other state. Because of this concentration, our financial position and results of operations have been and are expected to continue to be influenced by general trends in the California economy and its real estate market. Real estate market declines may adversely affect the values of the properties collateralizing loans. If the principal balances of our loans, together with any primary financing on the mortgaged properties, equal or exceed the value of the mortgaged properties, we could incur higher losses on sales of properties collateralizing foreclosed loans. In addition, California historically has been vulnerable to certain natural disaster risks, such as earthquakes and erosion-caused mudslides, which are not typically covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers. Our business is highly competitive. There is intense competition in Southern California and elsewhere in the United States for banking customers. We compete for loans primarily with other commercial banks, mortgage companies, commercial finance companies and savings institutions. In recent years, out-of-state financial institutions have entered the California market, which has also increased competition. Many of our competitors have greater financial strength, marketing capability and name recognition than we do, and operate on a statewide or nationwide basis. In addition, recent developments in technology and mass marketing have permitted larger companies to market loans more aggressively to our small business customers. Such advantages may give our competitors opportunities to realize greater efficiencies and economies of scale than we can. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against our competition. Our business is heavily regulated. Both BHBC, as a bank holding company, and the Bank, as a California-chartered FDIC-insured bank, are subject to significant governmental supervision, regulation and legislation, which is intended primarily to maintain a safe and sound banking system, to protect depositors and the FDIC insurance fund, and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy, and are not intended to protect bank and bank holding company shareholders. Statutes, regulations and regulatory policies affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities also may change. We cannot provide assurance that future changes in applicable statutes, regulations, legislation and policies or in their interpretation will not materially adversely affect our business. We may not be able to fully utilize our deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2005, we had net deferred tax assets totaling $30.7 million. This amount includes $29.8 million in anticipated tax savings that would result from the future usage of $87.5 million in available federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. However, the maximum amount of NOL carryforward we may utilize in any year is limited to $6.0 million, as a result of our “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in 2002. Therefore, to fully utilize this NOL, we need to earn an average of at least $6.0 million in taxable income per year through the year ended December 31, 2020, at which date the NOL carryforward will expire. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient taxable income in the next 15 years to enable us to utilize all of our available NOL. If at any time it appears more likely than not that we will not be able to realize this deferred tax asset, we would be required to establish a valuation allowance against the asset and record a corresponding charge to current earnings. This would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents The sale of the Beverly Hills branch may not achieve the desired results. We are considering selling the Bank’s Beverly Hills branch during 2006. Management believes that this sale would enable us to (i) reduce overhead, (ii) increase efficiency by consolidating all of the Bank’s operations into our Calabasas facility and (iii) operate primarily as a wholesale bank. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the sale of the Beverly Hills branch. In addition, there can be no assurance that, if completed, this sale will cause the reduction in overhead or the increase in operating efficiencies to the extent anticipated by management. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 