Item 1A. Risk Factors We are affected by a wide range of risk factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could therefore cause operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us elsewhere in this report. In addition, investors in our common stock and other securities also bear certain risks relating to those securities and the trading market for our common stock. Below are some of the material factors and risks that could affect our results of operations or the value of our securities: No Assurance of Future Profitability; Losses from Operations; Need for Capital. We incurred net income in fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and a net loss in fiscal year 2009. In order to generate profits in the future, we need to continue to maintain operating profit by continuing to increase the volume of products and services sold at profitable margins, control costs and generate sufficient cash flow to support our working capital and debt service requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain net income or avoid net losses in the future or that we will be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms if our capital needs cannot be satisfied by cash flow from operations. We enhanced our profitability over the past fifteen months, generating net income during fiscal 2010, in contrast to fiscal 2009, when we faced a number of challenges presented by the rapidly weakening economy. We responded to the need to raise new capital by completing a $40 million recapitalization in June 2009 (the “Recapitalization”) that reduced our total debt by $4.5 million, lowered our annual servicing expense for interest and dividends by over $1 million, increased our shareholders’ equity by $4.1 million and reduced our debt to equity ratio from approximately 9 to 1 at June 30, 2008 to 2 to 1 at June 30, 2009. In the future, we may need to raise additional capital to fund new acquisitions, to expand or diversify existing operations or to make additional debt repayments. We believe that, in light of the financial stability flowing from our June 2009 Recapitalization and the resulting positive financial performance in fiscal 2010, we will be able to obtain needed capital, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the capital available will be offered on terms acceptable to us. Nasdaq Listing of Our Common Stock. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol FUEL. While we consider the listing on Nasdaq to be a valuable attribute of our common stock and other securities, maintaining that listing has been costly over the past few years and there is still no assurance that such listing will continue. During Fiscal 2008, our listing on Nasdaq came into question on two different grounds, leading us to issue shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for approximately $2.52 million in cash and debt and then issue 1,985 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in exchange for approximately $1.8 million in debt. These transactions increased our stockholders’ equity by approximately $4.1 million, permitting us to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum stockholders’ equity requirements. During fiscal 2009, we completed a recapitalization of our debt and equity that increased stockholders’ equity to $6.5 million at June 30, 2009. While we were profitable in fiscal 2010 and further buttressed our compliance with this requirement, there is no assurance that such compliance will continue indefinitely since substantial net operating losses in the future could reduce our stockholders’ equity below Nasdaq minimums again. In addition, because the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement of Nasdaq Marketplace Rules for more than 30 consecutive business days in 2007, we sought and obtained a series of extensions of time to reestablish compliance with this requirement. When our final deadline for reestablishing compliance with the minimum bid price requirement was set at October 15, 2009, we were required to implement a 1 for 4.5 reverse stock split that took effect on October 1, 2009. While this reverse stock split succeeded in increasing the post-reverse split trading price of our common stock above the $1.00 minimum bid price, the market price for our stock steadily decreased after the split, notwithstanding what we believed to be our steadily improving operating results at the time. Based on this apparent disconnect between the market prices for our stock and our reported financial performance after the reverse stock split, we determined that the market price of our common stock did not reflect its value and, in August 2010, commenced an open market purchase program for shares of our own stock. While we have expressed our own views as to the value of our stock by launching the open market purchase program, it is possible that the inconsistency between the market price of our post-split stock and our financial performance will continue in the future. In such an event, there is a risk that the market price will again fall below the $1.00 minimum price for a prolonged period of time in violation of Nasdaq rules. In such an event, our listing on Nasdaq could again be threatened and we may not be in a position to cure the non-compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. 7 Effect of Price Depreciation After Reverse Stock Split. As noted above, the long term efficacy of the Company’s 1 for 4.5 reverse stock split in maintaining compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement remains uncertain. Moreover, since the reverse stock split, the market price of our common stock has steadily declined notwithstanding what we believe to be consistent improvements in our results of operations, cash flow and financial stability during the same time period. Accordingly, even though the reverse stock split successfully re-established compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirement the aggregate market value of our common stock after the reverse stock split has been lower than it was before the reverse stock split. There is no assurance that this price depreciation will be reversed or even slowed by our continuing improvements in financial performance. We acknowledge the risk that, as some anecdotal evidence suggests, stock prices can be adversely affected for a considerable period of time by reverse stock splits (and positively impacted by forward stock splits) irrespective of the financial condition or operating performance of the issuer. Investors should therefore appreciate the potential for a lingering negative impact on the trading prices of the common stock from the reverse stock split. Volatility of Trading Market for Our Stock. During the past few years, our stock has sometimes traded in large daily volumes and other times at much lower volumes, in many cases at wide price variances. This volatility, which could make it difficult for shareholders to sell shares at a predictable price or at specific times, is generally due to factors beyond our control. Quarterly and annual operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or other developments affecting us could also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may be affected by various other factors unrelated to the number of shares outstanding after the reverse stock split, including our future performance and general market conditions. Acquisition Availability; Integrating Acquisitions. Our future growth strategy involves the acquisition of complementary businesses, such as wholesale fuel or petroleum lubricants marketers and distributors, wholesale fuel and other commercial mobile fueling companies, and transportation logistics services businesses. It is not certain that we will be able to identify or make suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms or that any future acquisitions will be effectively and profitably integrated into our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including timely and cost effective integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, potential write downs of acquired assets, retention of key personnel of the acquired business, potential disruption of existing business, maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the availability of necessary capital on acceptable terms, the effect of changes in management on existing business relationships, and profitability and cash flows generally. Our credit facility with our principal lender also requires the Company to obtain the consent of the financial institution prior to incurring additional debt, or entering into mergers, consolidations or sales of assets. Growth Dependent Upon Future Expansion; Risks Associated With Expansion into New Markets. While our long term plan is to expand more quickly through acquisitions, our growth will also depend upon the ability to achieve greater penetration in existing markets and to successfully enter new markets in both additional major and secondary metropolitan areas. Such organic expansion will largely be dependent on our ability to demonstrate the benefits of our services and products to potential new customers, successfully establish and operate new locations, hire, train and retain qualified management, operating, marketing and sales personnel, finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital requirements, secure reliable sources of product supply on a timely basis and on commercially acceptable credit terms, and successfully manage growth by effectively supervising operations, controlling costs and maintaining appropriate quality controls. During the fiscal year 2010, we grew our business organically by completing an expansion into three new markets including Knoxville, TN, Spartanburg, SC, and North Augusta, GA, and of our business in existing North Carolina markets. Although in the fiscal year 2010 we were able to continue to grow our business, there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to successfully expand our operations into new markets. 8 Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the continued services and efforts of Richard E. Gathright, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and on those of other key executive personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Gathright or other executive personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, operating, marketing, sales and financial personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain such personnel on terms satisfactory to us. We have entered into written employment agreements with Mr. Gathright and certain other key executive personnel. While Mr. Gathright’s employment agreement provides for automatic one-year extensions unless either party gives notice of intent not to renew prior to such extension, there is no assurance that Mr. Gathright’s services or those of our other executive personnel will continue to be available to us. Fuel Pricing and Supply Availability; Effect on Profitability. Diesel fuel and gasoline are commodities that are refined and distributed by numerous sources. We purchase the fuel from multiple suppliers at daily market prices and in some cases qualify for certain discounts. We monitor fuel prices and trends in each of our service markets on a daily basis and seek to purchase our supply at the lowest prices and under the most favorable terms. Commodity price risk is generally mitigated since we purchase and distribute our fuel supply daily and generally utilize cost-plus pricing when billing our customers. If we cannot continue to utilize cost-plus pricing as a component of billing our customers, margins would likely decrease and losses could return to the bottom line performance. We have not engaged in derivatives or futures trading to hedge fuel price movements. In addition, diesel fuel and gasoline may be subject to supply interruption due to a number of factors, including natural disasters, refinery and/or pipeline outages and labor disruptions. While limitations on the credit available from suppliers became a more significant issue for us during the onset of the national economic recession in fiscal 2008 and 2009, the 2009 Recapitalization and our improved operating performance in fiscal 2010 has alleviated most of these credit availability issues. There is no assurance that a tightened credit market will not recur. Irrespective of the reason, any reduction of the availability of fuel supplies could impact our ability to provide mobile fueling, commercial bulk fueling, and emergency response services and would therefore impact our profitability. Risks Associated with Customer Concentration; Absence of Written Agreements. Although we provide services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few of our larger customers. Sales to our two largest customers, represents 22% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2010. While we have formal, length of service written contracts with certain of these larger customers, including our two largest customers, one of whom we have been servicing for over 16 years, such agreements are not customary and we do not have them with the majority of our customers. As a result, most of our customers can terminate our services at any time and for any reason, and we can similarly discontinue service to those customers. We may also discontinue service to a customer if changes in the service conditions or other factors cause us not to meet our minimum level of margins and rates, and the pricing or delivery arrangements cannot be passed along to our customers to achieve our required yield. As a result of this customer concentration and the absence of written agreements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our larger customers were lost or if we were to experience a high rate of service terminations of our other customers. Effect of Reduced Fuel Usage. The global economic downturn that followed the September 2008 stock market crash resulted in many businesses, including most of our customers, experiencing reduced demand for their services and, thus the amount of fuel that they consume in their operations. For those of our existing customers who experienced reduced fuel usage, the reductions lowered the volumes sold by us to those customers. We have not seen any recovery of the approximately 14% reduction in sales volumes to existing customers that we experienced at the beginning of this long, deep and continuing economic recession and downturn. We have replaced those lost sales with sales to new customers and the expansion of service to existing customers in new markets. However, should the current weak economic conditions persist or worsen, it is possible that customers’ fuel usage will not recover to pre-recession levels or could decline further. If we cannot replace any further diminished customer volumes, then our revenues and our results of operation could be negatively affected. In addition, while we have not historically experienced a material reduction in fuel sales during periods of extremely high fuel prices due to the nature of our business, such an event in the future could also negatively affect our customer’s volumes of fuel used and our financial performance. 9 Competition. We compete with other service providers, including several large regional providers and numerous small, local independent operators, who provide some or all of the same services that we offer to our customers. In the mobile fueling area, we also compete with retail fuel marketing, since fleet operators have the option of fueling their own equipment at retail stations and at other third-party service locations such as card lock facilities. Our ability to compete is affected by numerous factors, including price, the complexity and technical nature of the services required, delivery dependability, credit terms, the costs incurred for non-mobile fueling alternatives, service locations as well as the type of reporting and invoicing services provided. In addition, because our principal competitors are privately held, we are adversely affected by the availability of the information concerning our business contained in our SEC filings and elsewhere, since they can utilize that information to compete with us and we have no corresponding information concerning them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully as a result of these or other factors. Operating Risks May Not Be Covered by Insurance. Our operations are subject to the operating hazard and risks normally incidental to handling, storing and transporting diesel fuel and gasoline, which are classified as hazardous materials. We maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverages and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal and property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, including business interruption; that we will be able to maintain acceptable levels of insurance; or that insurance will be available at economical prices. Governmental Regulation. Numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including those relating to protection of the environment and worker safety, affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements without incurring substantial costs or otherwise adversely affecting our operations. Terrorism and Warfare May Adversely Affect the Economy and the Price and Availability of Petroleum Products. Terrorist attacks, as well as the continuing political unrest and warfare in various oil producing countries, may adversely impact the price and availability of fuel, our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact of terrorism on the oil industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets, the sources of our products, and our infrastructure facilities or our suppliers could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity or warfare may also hinder our ability to transport fuel if the means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipelines, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity following a terrorist attack or war could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also impair our ability to raise capital. Terrorist activity or further instability in the Middle East could also lead to increased volatility in fuel prices, which could adversely affect our business generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 10 Item 