ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with the Termination of the Plan of Liquidation and the Pursuit of Alternative Growth Strategies As described in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, a proposal to terminate the plan of liquidation was approved at the special meeting on November 8, 2007. There are significant risks associated with terminating the plan of liquidation and pursuing alternative growth strategies. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: We are confronted by significant challenges as we attempt to grow operations. We seek to grow within areas of historical expertise and areas that management considers to be of logical interest, but will also pursue acquisitions and other business combinations. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could evaluate and pursue, our ability to consummate a transaction may be limited by our available financial resources. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We may also issue shares of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities to complete a business combination. We may issue options or other equity awards to our new management or the management of a target business in a business combination, both of which would reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders and could cause a change in control. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or otherwise expand our business will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, all of whom joined us following the termination of the plan of liquidation, or those who would prospectively join in conjunction with a business combination. Finally, our financial resources may initially dictate that we will only be able to complete one business combination or growth initiative, which will cause us to be increasingly dependent on a single business and its products or services. In this case, we may not be able to satisfactorily diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities, which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Our ability to utilize NOLs to offset future taxable income could be reduced significantly, or eliminated, by our strategic plans following the termination of the Plan of Liquidation or events outside of our control. We currently have approximately $85 million in federal income tax net operating losses (NOLs). Our ability to preserve these NOLs for future use by us or the surviving corporation in a business combination is dependent on numerous rules and regulations. It is possible that the ownership shift that would accompany some of the business combination opportunities the Company could pursue following the termination of the plan of liquidation would result in a substantial reduction in available NOLs. The available NOLs could also be reduced substantially if some or all of our significant stockholders increase their proportional ownership of us through open market purchases of common stock. However, the amount of available NOLs resulting from a change in ownership depends on factors such as the market price of our common stock, market capitalization, changes in ownership over 3 time, prevailing interest rates and the nature and structure of any business combinations. Changes in any of these variables between the date of our illustration and any future change in ownership could substantially decrease the available NOLs. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock has historically been relatively low and is likely to continue to be low. As a result of this relatively low trading volume, our stock price can be highly volatile. Any large sales could have a negative effect on our stock price and its volatility. If we fail to meet NYSE Alternext Exchange listing standards in the future, the NYSE Alternext Exchange could delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to complete transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Alternext Exchange. The delisting of our common stock from trading on the Exchange could have adverse consequences, including a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock, a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us, a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future and reduced attractiveness as a business combination partner. If we are unable to retain certain key executives and staff members to conduct normal business operations, financial results may be negatively impacted, as well as our ability to remain a timely filer. Our ability to continuously maintain operations will depend to a large extent on the experience and ability of our chairman, president and chief executive officer, Michael C. Pearce, and his experience and familiarity with our assets, counter-parties and the market for related assets. We believe that a loss of Mr. Pearce’s services could materially harm our ability to maximize existing assets and develop avenues for expansion. We are highly dependent on the services of Tracy S. Clifford, our chief financial officer. If Ms. Clifford were to resign, we would likely seek to hire a replacement for her, the cost of which would depend on our determination of the experience and skills that must be possessed by her replacement in light of our financial condition, our assets, and the complexity of any issues bearing on us at that time. If we are unable to retain these two key executives, ordinary business operations and regulatory compliance timeliness may be jeopardized. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 