Risk Factors BASF’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer adverse material effects due to any of the following risks. While all the risks considered material are described below, these are not the only risks BASF faces. Additional risks not known by BASF or not presently considered material might also impair BASF’s business operations. Certain developments in the global economy generally may adversely affect BASF’s sales and earnings Four major economic factors may pose risks affecting BASF’s sales and earnings: 1. Oil price developments could be different from estimated tendency to decline, 2. The U.S. dollar may further devaluate against the euro and Asian currencies, 3. China’s economy might experience a significantly reduced growth rate compared with expectations, 4. The U.S. interest rate level could increase faster and higher than anticipated. 11 Decreasing demand for chemical products in the United States and Asia, as well as ongoing economic weakness in Europe, could consequently have an adverse effect on both sales and earnings. Those areas that are subject to commoditization, such as BASF’s basic inorganic chemicals, petrochemicals, intermediates and plastics operations are particularly vulnerable, whereas BASF’s agricultural, nutrition and cosmetics operations and natural gas trading are less likely to suffer. BASF is also regionally diversified, and therefore less likely to suffer from weakness in a specific region. Changes in regulatory controls could reduce the profitability of BASF’s current products and could delay BASF’s introduction of new products BASF must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on the testing, manufacturing and marketing of many of its products. BASF expects that regulatory controls worldwide, and especially in the European Union (E.U.), will become increasingly more demanding. The proposed new E.U. chemicals policy (REACH) could require a significant increase in testing for chemical products. These tests could be very cost intensive and time consuming, and could lead to increased costs and reduced operating margins for BASF’s chemical products. The new legislation is not expected to be in force before 2007 in the respective countries in Europe. Under the E.U. Directive on Emission Trading, governments have to impose total CO2 (carbon dioxide) caps on specific energy intensive installations. These caps aim to enable E.U. member states to meet their Kyoto targets. The National Allocation Plans (NAPs) have been assigned in 2004 for the first period from 2005 until 2007. BASF expects to comply with these targets during the next years. BASF does not anticipate specific capital expenditure exceeding the general administration and adjustment costs that the European industry is facing. Significant capital expenditure and possible limitations of BASF’s growth strategy could occur, if the allocation situation changes dramatically after 2007. BASF is exposed to foreign currency and interest rate risks BASF conducts a significant portion of its operations outside of Europe and is therefore exposed to risks associated with the fluctuations of foreign currencies. BASF is subject to interest rate risks in the ordinary course of its business. Risk management is centralized at BASF Aktiengesellschaft and BASF Group companies designated for that purpose. BASF hedges against financial risks through derivative instruments such as forward exchange contracts, currency options, interest rate and currency swaps and combined instruments. There can be no assurance, however, that BASF’s hedging strategy will be effective and that foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations will not adversely affect BASF’s results of operations. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 29 included in Item 18 for additional information about the nominal value and market value of BASF’s financial instruments. BASF is also subject to credit risks to the extent that counterparties to transactions may not be able to perform their contractual obligations. Although BASF aims to limit the risk of default by entering into transactions only with top-rated financial institutions and by adhering to fixed limits, defaults with respect to significant contracts may adversely affect BASF’s operating results. Significant variations in the cost and availability of raw materials, energy, precursors and intermediates may adversely affect BASF’s operating results BASF uses significant amounts of raw materials and energy in manufacturing a wide variety of products. Significant variations in the cost and availability of raw materials, energy, precursors and intermediates may adversely affect BASF’s operating results. To control these price and supply risks, BASF purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts, with prices that periodically float. Additionally required purchases on spot markets are made using optimized procedures. Supply contracts for the most strategically important raw materials are negotiated and concluded centrally for the BASF Group. For more information, see “Item 