ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as the discussion in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained herein, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Uncertain Global Economic Conditions may continue to adversely affect demand for our services. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for IT services in the markets in which we operate. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings and growth rates. The global economic downturn in recent years has reduced, and may further reduce, demand for our services and has also caused clients to request additional price concessions, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. Potential U.S. regulation of offshore outsourcing may increase compliance costs and adversely impact our ability to do business in the U.S. Some U.S. states have enacted legislation restricting government agencies from outsourcing their back office processes and IT solutions work to companies outside the United States. It is also possible that U.S. private sector companies that work with these states may be restricted from outsourcing their work related to government contracts. We currently do not have significant contracts with U.S. federal or state government entities; and although such restrictions do not currently apply to private companies, such as our clients, they may do so in the future. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing may adversely impact our ability to do business in the United States, particularly if these changes are widespread, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. International immigration and work permit laws may adversely affect our ability to deploy our workforce and provide services in accordance with our Global Delivery Model. We have international operations in seventeen countries and recruit professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration and work permit/visa laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate. As of January 31, 2011, 1,381 IT professionals, representing approximately 16.6% of our worldwide workforce are providing services under work permits/visas. Historically, we have done much of our recruiting outside of the countries where the client work is located. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant employee attrition. Our inability to obtain sufficient work permits/visas on a timely basis due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit/visa regulations in particular jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our business in effectively utilizing our Global Delivery Model, therefore impacting our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Government taxation in India (including the failure to extend certain tax holidays) could reduce our overall profitability. iGS is an export-oriented company which, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, is entitled to claim tax holiday for a period of ten consecutive years for each of the business units in a Software Technology Park (“STP”) 12 Table of Contents with respect to export profits. Substantially all of the earnings of iGS are attributable to export profits. The majority of our STP units in India are currently entitled to a 100% exemption from Indian income tax and these tax holidays will be completely phased out by March 31, 2011. Under current Indian tax law, export profits after March 31, 2011 from our existing STP units will be fully taxable at the Indian statutory rate (33.22% as of December 31, 2010) in effect at such time. If the tax holidays relating to our Indian STP units are not extended or new tax incentives are not introduced that would effectively extend the income tax holiday benefits beyond March 31, 2011, we expect that our effective income tax rate would increase significantly beginning in calendar year 2011 which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In anticipation of the complete phase out of tax holidays post March 31, 2011, we have set up two new development centers in areas designated as Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”) and many of our future planned development centers will also operate in SEZs. Development centers operating in SEZs are entitled to 100% tax holiday for the first five years and 50% tax holiday for the next ten years. We have started to claim tax holiday for the two new development centers set up in SEZs, but there can be no assurance that the SEZs will offset the impact of tax holiday phase out. Government taxation in various countries may reduce our profitability. The tax laws in various countries undergo constant changes which impact corporate businesses and profitability depending on the proposals. The current tax proposals in the United States and India may have an adverse impact if the existing tax incentives or tax credits are removed. For instance, under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, we can take the credit of the Minimum Alternate Tax (“MAT”) paid on the book profits in those years where there is no taxable income, by carrying forward to adjust it in the future period. As of December 31, 2010, based on the existing tax laws, we have $14.2 million of MAT credit available for carry forward. Any future inability to use the MAT credit and carry forward of the unutilized credit may significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm’s-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arm’s-length terms. If, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, we may incur increased tax liability, including interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to ongoing tax audit in India. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks posed by climate change may materially increase our compliance costs and adversely impact our profitability. Climate change vulnerability is posing new threats and opportunities in the economy. Climate change and measures adopted to address it can affect us, our clients and suppliers in myriad ways, depending on the nature and location of the businesses, the near-term capital expenditure needs, the regulatory environments where they operate and their strategic plans. Generally, climate risks and opportunities for companies and their investors fall into four categories: • physical risk from climate change; • regulatory risks and opportunities related to existing or proposed greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions limits; 13 Table of Contents • indirect regulatory risks and opportunities related to products or services from high emitting companies; and • litigation risks for emitters of greenhouse gases. Unmitigated climate change is likely to have severe physical impacts on companies with exposed assets or business operations including us. Major environmental risks and liabilities can significantly impact future earnings. iGATE is committed to establish itself as climate responsible organization which conducts its business in a sustainable fashion so as to optimize resources and energy utilization. We ultimately wish to achieve carbon neutrality and position ourselves in a low carbon growth path. As the first step of strategizing our action plan for climate change mitigation, we have undertaken carbon footprint estimation study which determines the GHG inventory covering all the facilities. Beginning in 2008, we began estimating our carbon footprint and GHG emissions, which are audited. The overall GHG inventory for 2009 stood at 28,559 tCO2. iGATE’s GHG emission intensity is one of the lowest among major Indian IT corporations which we expect to limit our litigation and regulatory risk. To the extent we are unable to comply with applicable regulations related to climate change, and such failure to comply results in material increases in compliance costs or litigation expenses, those costs or expenses will have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition to emissions and climate change risks posed directly to us, we also have clients in varied industries such as financial services, insurance, banking, manufacturing, retail, media and entertainment and healthcare, among others. Some of the clients may be significantly affected by the climate change resulting in greater physical risk and impacting their operations. If our clients are adversely affected by climate change or related compliance costs, this may reduce their spending and demand for our services, leading to a decrease in revenue, which would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Incidents such as terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States, and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets, result in loss of client confidence, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Incidents such as the terrorist attacks that have occurred in India, the United States, and other countries and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, the United States or other countries, may adversely affect global equity markets and economic growth. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence and have other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Travel advisories, reluctance to travel and increased visa scrutiny for travelers as a result of such attacks may have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively. Any of these events could adversely affect client confidence in India as an outsourcing base. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, such as between India and Pakistan and even within India. There have been military confrontations along the India-Pakistan border from time to time. The potential for hostilities between the two countries is high due to past terrorist incidents in India, troop mobilizations along the border, and the geopolitical situation in the region. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Political tensions could increase the perception that investments in Indian companies involve a higher degree of risk than companies in other countries such as the United States. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for our services. 14 Table of Contents Our performance is linked to the stability of policies and the political situation in India. The role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy and their effect on producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant over the years. Since 1991, successive governments of India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. The present Government of India elected in May 2009 has taken initiatives that continue to support the economic liberalization policies pursued by previous governments, but there is not certainty that these liberalization policies will continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular. Our international operations subject us to increased regulatory risks as well as difficulties in managing international operations. We have international operations in seventeen countries. Our international IT and IT-enabled outsourcing development depend greatly upon business immigration and technology transfer laws in those countries, and upon the continued development of technology infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our international operations will be profitable or support our growth strategy. The risks inherent in our international business activities include: • unexpected changes in regulatory environments or failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses; • foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • enforcing third party contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • difficulties in managing international operations; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to manage growth, attract and retain personnel, manage major development efforts, profitably deliver services or a significant interruption of our ability to transmit data via undersea cables could have a material adverse impact on our ability to successfully maintain and develop our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate and respond to technology advances in our industry and our clients’ industries. The IT and offshore outsourcing services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with industry developments. We may not be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or at all, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies, breadth and depth of process and technology expertise, service quality, knowledge of industry, marketing and sales capabilities. Our failure to 15 Table of Contents hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to remain competitive will also be dependent on our ability to design and implement, in a timely and cost-effective manner, effective transition strategies for clients moving to advanced architectures. Our failure to design and implement such transition strategies in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we do not or are unable to protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe or misappropriate on the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems in providing our services. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and intellectual property laws to protect confidential information and intellectual property rights of ours and our third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. The steps we take in this regard may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. At the same time, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Any significant misappropriation, infringement or devaluation of such rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly. Although we believe that our services do not infringe or misappropriate on the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, defense against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. A successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us could require us to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that contain the infringing technology. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry consolidation may cause us to lose key relationships and intensify competition. Acquisitions or other consolidating transactions within our industry could harm us in a number of ways, including the loss of customers, if competitors consolidate with our current or potential customers, our current competitors become stronger or new competitors emerge from consolidations. Any of these events could put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could cause us to lose customers, revenue and market share. Consolidation in our industry, or in related industries, could force us to expend greater resources to meet new or additional competitive threats, which could also harm our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our international operations subject us to increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have international operations in seventeen countries and as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars (“USD”) subject us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the USD and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The exchange rate between the USD and other currencies has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in USD for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in other currencies such as Indian Rupees, Canadian Dollars (“CAD”), Mexican Pesos, Australian Dollars, British Pounds (“GBP”), Euros, and Japanese Yen. Hedging strategies, such as forward contracts and options related to transaction exposures that we have implemented or 16 Table of Contents may implement to mitigate this risk may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected if other currencies appreciate against the USD and an effective foreign exchange hedging program is not in place. We may not be able to successfully integrate Patni’s operations with our operations, which could cause our business to suffer. In order to obtain all of the anticipated benefits of the Patni Acquisition, we and Patni will need to combine and integrate the businesses and operations of our separate companies. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time- consuming process. In addition, we will not own 100% of Patni and as a result, our integration efforts may be adversely affected by the minority stock holders in Patni. As a result, after the Patni Acquisition, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of our company and Patni. The integration process may divert the attention of the combined company’s executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits of the transaction expected by us and Patni. We have not completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to the proposed Patni Acquisition. The failure of the combined company, after the Patni Acquisition, to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating our operations or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the combination could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer relationships, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; • developing and implementing employment polices to facilitate workforce integration and meet applicable legal requirements; • preserving important strategic and customer relationships; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • coordinating marketing functions; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and • integrating the cultures of our company and Patni. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate our businesses and operations, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the Patni Acquisition, including sales or growth opportunities that were anticipated, within the intended time frame, or at all. Further, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of our common stock after the transaction may be affected by factors different from those existing prior to the Patni Acquisition and may suffer as a result of the transaction. As a result, we cannot assure you that the combination of the businesses and operations of our company with Patni will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Patni Acquisition. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock are senior obligations, rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation and have other terms, such as a put right and a mandatory conversion date, that could negatively impact the value of shares of our common stock. We have issued $210 million of Series B Preferred Stock to Viscaria Limited and, if the Patni Acquisition is successful, may issue up to $270 million additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The rights of the holders 17 Table of Contents of our Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation rank senior to similar obligations to our common stock holders. Upon our liquidation or upon certain changes of control, the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities, an amount equal to the greater of the outstanding principal plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such Series B Preferred Stock (which cumulative dividends accrue at the rate of 8% per annum and compound quarterly) and the amount such holders would have received if such Series B Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock provide rights to their holders that could negatively impact our Company. Additional issuances of Series B Preferred Stock would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Subject to receiving necessary shareholder approvals, if any, under the rules of the NASDAQ, shares of our Series B Preferred Stock may be converted at any time at the option of the holder at an initial conversion price of $20.30 per share (which conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events). The Series B Preferred Stock have a put right that provides the holder the right to require us to purchase its shares of Series B Preferred Stock (for an amount equal to the outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon) at the date that is six years after the latest applicable issuance date thereof (subject to extension in limited circumstances). This put right could expose us to a liquidity risk if we do not have sufficient cash resources at hand or are not able to find financing on sufficiently attractive terms to comply with our obligations to repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock upon exercise of such put. Further, so long as Viscaria Limited and certain other holders affiliated with Viscaria Limited own in the aggregate at least one half of Viscaria Limited’s initial equity investment in iGATE, no dividends on our common stock (or any other equity securities junior in right to the Series B Preferred Stock) may be paid without the consent of a majority of such holders. To the extent any dividend, distributions or other payments are made on our common stock, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall have the right to participate on an as converted basis in any such dividends, distributions or other payments. The existence of such a senior security could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. If the Patni Acquisition is completed, we will incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a portion of the consideration for the Patni securities to be acquired, which debt could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. The revolving credit facility is expected to include terms and conditions customary for agreements of this type, and we anticipate that the $700 million of senior unsecured notes or bridge facility, will contain customary terms and conditions for those types of instruments, which we expect will restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial amount of indebtedness could have important consequences for you. For example, it could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, such as funding our working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to service our indebtedness; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any less leveraged competitors; and • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to meet our obligations under other instruments, including the obligation to redeem or repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock under certain circumstances. 18 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate the cash required to service debt in connection with Patni Acquisition. Our ability to make payments on and refinance indebtedness incurred in connection with Patni Acquisition, and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are expected to be, subject to substantial fluctuations, and will depend upon general economic conditions and financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, seek additional equity capital, reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures or sell material assets or operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay our debt or refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to fund our liquidity needs. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds under the revolving credit facility. If the amounts outstanding are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness that will be owed to our debt holders. Following the consummation of the Patni Acquisition, we will own less than 100% of Patni’s equity interests and our ability to control and influence Patni’s operations may be limited by Patni’s other shareholders. Following the consummation of the Patni Acquisition, we will own approximately 83.6% of Patni’s outstanding common shares (assuming 100% of the Patni shares permitted to tender in connection with the mandatory open offer being conducted in accordance with Indian law in connection with the Patni Acquisition are validly tendered). While following the consummation of the Patni Acquisition (if such transaction shall reach completion) we will hold a majority of Patni’s outstanding common shares, we do not expect to have complete control over Patni and its operations and the interests of Patni’s other shareholders may conflict with ours. As a result, the potential benefits of the Patni Acquisition accruing to us may be less than they might otherwise have been. Following the consummation of the Patni Acquisition, Indian listing and securities regulations require the Company to sell or issue Patni equity interests if the public float of such equity interests is less than 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the Patni Acquisition, the Company and the Purchasers have made a mandatory open offer to the public shareholders of Patni in accordance with the requirements of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 1997, as amended, and a tender offer pursuant to the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to purchase up to 20.6% of Patni’s current equity share capital (collectively, the “Offer”). We will own 83.6% of Patni’s equity interests, assuming the Offer is fully subscribed. Pursuant to the listing agreement and the securities contract regulation act in India, every listed company in India is required to maintain a public float of at least 25%. In the event the Offer is fully subscribed, the public float of Patni will fall below 25% and the Company will be required to increase the public float to at least 25% within 12 months from such date by an issuance of shares, an offer for sale of shares or a secondary sale of shares by the promoters in compliance with the listing agreement. 19 Table of Contents The market price of Patni’s equity interests may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described in the risk factors related to our business. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to resell Patni’s equity interests at or above our acquisition price or may not be able to resell them at all. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of Patni’s equity interests, regardless of our operating performance. Price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of Patni’s equity interests is low. In addition, our inability to resell Patni’s equity interests may result in fines or penalties, including a delisting of Patni’s equity interests. As a result of the first closing under the Viscaria Purchase Agreement entered into by iGATE and Viscaria Limited, an affiliate of Apax Partners LLP and Apax Partners, L.P. is a significant shareholder in our Company and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. In connection with the Patni Acquisition, we entered into the Viscaria Purchase Agreement, with Viscaria Limited, a company backed by funds advised by Apax Partners LLP and Apax Partners, L.P., pursuant to which we (a) have sold to Viscaria Limited 210,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, and (b) may issue up to $270 million additional shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of this ownership, Viscaria Limited will be entitled to, among other things, elect one of the directors to our Board of Directors, or two directors in the event that the size of our Board of Directors increases to 10 or more, and to veto certain actions, including rejecting proposed mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the current issued and outstanding Series B Preferred Stock would represent approximately 15.5% of the current voting power at a meeting of our stockholders (without taking into account the additional 14.1% that may be issued to Viscaria Limited at the second closing under such purchase agreement or any accrued and unpaid dividends on outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock) which would increase to 29.6% if all of the remaining $270 million is invested in the Company by Viscaria Limited at the second closing. The interests of Viscaria Limited and its affiliates may differ from our other stockholders in material respects. For example, Viscaria Limited may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings (including financings that are secured and senior to the notes) or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. Viscaria Limited or its affiliates or advisors are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. You should consider that the interests of these holders may differ from yours in material respects. If we are unable to complete the Patni Acquisition, we will be required to pay for our transaction related fees and expenses, including the costs incurred for third party professional services. We have hired third party professionals to help complete and integrate the Patni Acquisition. If we are unable to complete the Patni Acquisition, we have to pay these professionals without realizing the benefits we expected from the transaction and these costs will have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our concentration of revenues in a limited number of clients may reduce revenues if these clients decrease their IT spending significantly. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in North America, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. Economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. In the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 84.3% of our revenue was derived from customers located in the United States and Canada. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively 20 Table of Contents limited number of clients. Our five largest clients represented approximately 72%, 70% and 61% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Consequently, if our top clients reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the financial services or other industry segments on which we focus may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Our preferred vendor contracts may result in lower pricing for our services. We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large or medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally result in lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, we may not be able to sustain margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Continued pricing pressures may reduce our revenues. We market our service offerings to large and medium-sized organizations. Generally, the pricing for the projects depends on the type of contract: • Time and Material Contracts—Contract payments are based on the number of consultant hours worked on the project. • Annual Maintenance Contracts—Contracts with no stated deliverables and having a designated workforce, the pricing is based on fixed periodic payments. • Fixed Price Contracts—Contracts based upon deliverables and/or achieving of project milestones, pricing is based on a fixed price. • Some process outsourcing contracts provide pricing per transaction. Customers typically have the right to cancel contracts with minimal notice. Contracts with deliverables or project milestones may provide for certain payments if the deliverables or project milestones are not met within contract timelines. The intense competition and the changes in the general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain services or provide services that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle software products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain services. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our services or changes in customer demand, our revenues and cash flows could decrease. Early or unanticipated termination of client projects may result in a decrease in profitability if we have a higher number of unassigned IT professionals. Most of our projects are terminable by the client without payment of a termination fee. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require us to 21 Table of Contents maintain or terminate a significant number of unassigned IT professionals, resulting in a higher number of unassigned IT professionals and/or significant termination expenses. The loss of any significant client or project could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. An inability to recruit and retain IT professionals will adversely affect our ability to deliver our services. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled IT employees, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a sufficient number of skilled IT professionals and project managers who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Our failure to attract or retain qualified IT professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Wage increases in India and other countries where our competitive advantage is related to lower wage costs may adversely affect our cost structure. We have a significant offshore presence in India where a majority of our technical professionals are located. In the past, the Indian economy has experienced many of the problems confronting the economies of developing countries, including high inflation and varying gross domestic product growth. Salaries and other related benefits constitute a major portion of our total operating costs. Most of our employees are based in India where our wage costs have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India or other countries where we have our operations may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins which would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in tax law may require us to repatriate foreign earnings, increasing our effective tax rate and reducing profitability We do not accrue incremental U.S. taxes on all Indian earnings as these earnings (as well as other foreign earnings for all periods) are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings. If we change our intent and repatriate such earnings, we will incur a dividend distribution tax for distribution from India, currently 17% under Indian tax law, and be required to pay United States corporate income taxes on such earnings which will be at a substantially higher rate than our effective income tax rate in 2010. These potential increased taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we do not accurately estimate the resources necessary to complete fixed-price projects, our costs may increase significantly for those projects, which would adversely impact profitability. Fixed-price contracts may also commit us to unfavorable terms, which could impact profitability. We undertake some projects billed on a fixed-price basis. We recognize revenue from these contracts on a proportional performance basis, which is different from our principal method of billing, the time-and-material basis. Failure to accurately estimate the resources or time required to complete a fixed price project or to maintain the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in cost due to increase in employee cost or failure to complete such projects within budget would expose us to risks associated with cost overruns. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant variations. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates and the mix of time-and-material projects versus fixed price deliverable projects and maintenance projects during the quarter. We recognize revenues on time-and-material projects as the services are performed, while revenues on fixed price deliverable projects are recognized using the proportional performance method. Contracts with no stated deliverables, with a designated workforce assigned, recognize revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Although fixed price deliverable projects have not contributed significantly to revenues and profitability to date, operating results may be adversely affected in the future by cost overruns on fixed price deliverable projects. Because a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. Additionally, periodically our cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in infrastructure in anticipation of future opportunities for revenue growth. If we are unable to acquire and effectively integrate additional businesses, we may not be able to execute our growth strategy. We plan to continue to expand our operations gradually through the acquisition of, or investment in, additional businesses and companies in order to seek opportunities to add or enhance our services, to enter into new markets or to strengthen our global presence. We may be unable to identify businesses that complement our strategy for growth. If we do succeed in identifying a company with such a business, we may not be able to proceed to acquire the company, its relevant business or an interest in the company for many reasons, including: • a failure to agree on the terms of the acquisition or investment; • our incompatibility with the management of the company which we wish to acquire or invest; • competition from other potential acquirers; • a lack of capital to make the acquisition or investment; and • unwillingness of the company to partner with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances and legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets, risk that businesses we acquire may lose customers, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Client satisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired firm could have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquired businesses, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. Our failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we do not effectively manage our anticipated expansion growth by continuing to implement systems enhancements and other improvements, our ability to deliver quality services may be adversely affected. We had experienced significant growth in our operations in the last five years, except in 2009, where our revenues had dropped due to the economic downturn. The situation has improved now as compared to 2009 with sequential quarter on quarter revenue growth. The global economy is showing signs of recovery, however, there is no guarantee that the current growth will continue. This uncertainty places significant demands on our 23 Table of Contents management, and our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services may suffer thereby negatively affecting our brand and operating results. Our anticipated expansion and growth in international markets heightens these risks as a result of the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could impact our ability to manage our growth, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to maintain and enhance the iGATE brand, and the competitive advantages it affords us, demand for our services may be adversely affected. The brand identity that we have developed has contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the “iGATE” brand is critical to expanding our customer base and other strategic partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in the IT and IT-enabled services market. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology pioneer and continue to provide high-quality services, which we may not do successfully. If we fail to maintain and enhance the “iGATE” brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. If our infrastructure investments do not coincide with increased growth in our business, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our business model includes developing and operating global development centers in order to support our Global Delivery Model. We have global development centers located in Australia, Mexico, Canada, the U.S. and India. We are in the process of expanding our global development center in Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad, all located in India. We are developing these facilities in expectation of increased growth in our business. If our business does not grow as expected, we may not be able to benefit from our investment in this and other facilities, thereby incurring fixed cost, which will likely reduce our profitability. The market price of our shares may continue to be volatile The market price of our shares may continue to be unstable or unpredictable due to market conditions and other factors some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting the market price of our shares are: • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • loss of one or more significant clients; • loss of one or more key management personnel; • natural disasters or any other events affecting the countries where we or our clients have operations; and • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts. Founders have significant influence over the Company Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, co-chairmen and the co-founders of iGATE, beneficially own approximately 44.4% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2011, and therefore have significant influence in respect of matters requiring shareholder approval. The loss of the services of key members of our Senior Leadership Team would have an adverse impact on our business. Our success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Phaneesh Murthy and senior management team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are 24 Table of Contents difficult to replace. Although each executive has entered into employment agreements containing non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants, these contracts do not guarantee that they will continue their employment with us or that such covenants will be enforceable. If we lose the service of any of the key executives, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations and meet our ongoing and future business challenges and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our engagements may result in potential liability to our clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from, among other things, errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, we have not been able to do so in each contract and there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit our liability in the future will be successful. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and therefore could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation, materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may also be liable to our clients for damages caused by, among other things, disclosure of confidential information of the client or infringement of third party intellectual property rights. We are often required to collect and store sensitive and confidential data of the client to perform the services under the contract. If any of our current or former employees misappropriates a client’s sensitive or confidential data or if we do not adapt to the latest changes in the data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liability to our clients. Any disruption in the supply of power, IT infrastructure and telecommunications lines to our facilities could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs. Any disruption in basic infrastructure, including the supply of power, could negatively impact our ability to provide timely or adequate services to our clients. We rely on a number of telecommunications service and other infrastructure providers to maintain communications between our various facilities and clients in India, the United States and elsewhere. Telecommunications networks are subject to failures and periods of service disruption which can adversely affect our ability to maintain active voice and data communications among our facilities and with our clients. Such disruptions may cause harm to our clients’ business. We do not maintain business interruption insurance and may not be covered for any claims or damages if the supply of power, IT infrastructure or telecommunications lines is disrupted. This could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs, materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 