ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as the discussion in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained herein, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Uncertain global economic conditions may continue to adversely affect demand for our services. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for IT services in the markets in which we operate. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings and growth rates. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America and Europe. Weakening in these markets as a result of high government deficits, credit downgrades or otherwise, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and resource plans. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently the results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labor relations. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws, or regulations, including the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of our subcontractors, agents, alliance or joint venture partners and other third parties with which we associate could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, including U.S. federal contracting, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation. Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, because outsourcing and systems integration represent a significant portion of our business, changes in 20 Table of Contents laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources in connection with our government work, which have been proposed from time to time by various U.S. states, could adversely affect our results of operations. Such changes may result in contracts being terminated, or work being transferred onshore, resulting in greater costs to us and could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future work from government clients. We currently do not have significant contracts with U.S. federal or state government entities. International immigration and work permit laws may adversely affect our ability to deploy our workforce and provide services in accordance with our global delivery model. We have international operations in twenty seven countries and recruit professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration and work permit/visa laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate. As of January 31, 2012, 4,695 IT professionals, representing approximately 17.5% of our worldwide workforce are providing services under work permits/visas. Historically, we have done much of our recruiting outside of the countries where the client work is located. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant employee attrition. Our inability to obtain sufficient work permits/visas on a timely basis due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit/visa regulations in particular jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our business in effectively utilizing our global delivery model, therefore impacting our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, President Obama’s administration has announced proposals for other U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. There are also other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by the United States Congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could affect our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our other tax liabilities. Our net income could decrease if the Government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it currently provides to us, or otherwise increases our effective tax rate. Presently, we benefit from the tax holidays given by the Government of India for the export of IT services from specially designated software technology parks (“STPs”) and special economic zones (“SEZs”) in India. As a result of these incentives, which include a 10 year tax holiday from Indian corporate income taxes for the operation of most of our Indian facilities, our operations have been subject to relatively low tax liabilities. The tax benefits available for all our STP facilities expired on March 31, 2011. Consequently, our effective Indian tax rate has increased significantly. 21 Table of Contents Development centers operating in SEZs are entitled to certain income tax incentives of 100% of the export profits for a period of five years, 50% of such profits for the next five years and 50% of the profits for a further period of five years subject to satisfaction of certain capital investments requirements. Our profitability would be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to benefit from these tax incentives. Further, provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act 1961 are amended on an annual basis by enactment of the Finance Act. In addition, we may also be subject to changes in taxation resulting from the actions of applicable income tax authorities in India or from Indian tax laws that may be enacted in the future. For example, we may incur increased tax liability as a result of a determination by applicable income tax authorities that the transfer price applied to transactions involving our subsidiaries and the Company was not appropriate. Increases in our effective tax rate due to expired tax benefits, changes in applicable tax laws or the actions of applicable income tax or other regulatory authorities could materially reduce our profitability. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate and respond to technology advances in our industry and our clients’ industries. The IT and offshore outsourcing services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with industry developments. We may not be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or at all, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies, breadth and depth of process and technology expertise, service quality, knowledge of industry, marketing and sales capabilities. Our failure to hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to remain competitive will also be dependent on our ability to design and implement, in a timely and cost-effective manner, effective transition strategies for clients moving to advanced architectures. Our failure to design and implement such transition strategies in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we do not or are unable to protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe or misappropriate on the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems in providing our services. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and intellectual property laws to protect confidential information and intellectual property rights of ours and our third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. The steps we take in this regard may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. At the same time, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Any significant misappropriation, infringement or devaluation of such rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly. Although we believe that our services do not infringe or misappropriate on the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, defense against these claims, 22 Table of Contents even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. A successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us could require us to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that contain the infringing technology. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our clients’ proprietary rights may be misappropriated by our employees or subcontractors in violation of applicable confidentiality agreements. We require our employees and subcontractors to enter into non-disclosure arrangements to limit access to and distribution of our clients’ intellectual property and other confidential information as well as our own. We can give no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to enforce our clients’ intellectual property rights. If our clients’ proprietary rights are misappropriated by our employees or our subcontractors or their employees, in violation of any applicable confidentiality agreements or otherwise, our clients may consider us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us. System security risks and cyber-attacks could disrupt our information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition we routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our clients, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry consolidation may cause us to lose key relationships and intensify competition. Acquisitions or other consolidating transactions within our industry could harm us in a number of ways, including the loss of customers, if competitors consolidate with our current or potential customers, our current competitors become stronger or new competitors emerge from consolidations. Any of these events could put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could cause us to lose customers, revenue and market share. If one of current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry, consolidation could force us to expend greater resources to meet new or additional competitive threats, which could also adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have international operations in twenty seven countries and as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars (“USD”) subject us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the USD and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The exchange rate between the USD and other currencies has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in USD for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in other currencies such as Indian Rupees, Canadian Dollars (“CAD”), Mexican Pesos, Australian Dollars, British Pounds (“GBP”), Euros, and Japanese Yen. Hedging strategies, such as forward contracts and options related to transaction exposures that we have implemented or may implement to mitigate this risk may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected if other currencies appreciate against the USD and an effective foreign exchange hedging program is not in place. We are subject to counterparty default risks. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that include cash and investment deposits, foreign currency option contracts, and forward contracts. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the terms of the arrangement. In times of market distress, a counterparty may default rapidly and without notice to us, and we may be unable to take action to cover our exposure, either because we lack the contractual ability or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability eventually to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty’s default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable legal regime governing the bankruptcy proceeding. In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our revenues are concentrated in a limited number of clients in a limited number of industries which are primarily located in the United States and Europe and our revenues may be reduced if these clients significantly decrease their IT spending. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in North America, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. Economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. In the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 80.7% of our revenue was derived from customers located in the United States and Canada. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively limited number of clients. Our five largest clients represented approximately 39.8%, 72% and 70% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Consequently, if our top clients reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the financial services or other industry segments on which we focus may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Our preferred vendor contracts may result in lower pricing for our services. We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large or medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally result in lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, we may not be able to sustain 24 Table of Contents margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Continued pricing pressures may reduce our revenues. We market our service offerings to large and medium-sized organizations. Generally, the pricing for the projects depends on the type of contract: • Time and Material Contracts — Contract payments are based on the number of consultant hours worked on the project. • Annual Maintenance Contracts — Contracts with no stated deliverables and having a designated workforce, the pricing is based on fixed periodic payments. • Fixed Price Contracts — Contracts based upon deliverables and/or achieving of project milestones, pricing is based on a fixed price. • Some process outsourcing contracts provide pricing per transaction. Customers typically have the right to cancel contracts with minimal notice. Contracts with deliverables or project milestones may provide for certain payments if the deliverables or project milestones are not met within contract timelines. The intense competition and the changes in the general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain services or provide services that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle software products and services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain services. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our services or changes in customer demand, our revenues and cash flows could decrease. Early or unanticipated termination of client projects may result in a decrease in profitability if we have a higher number of unassigned IT professionals. Most of our projects are terminable by the client without payment of a termination fee. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require us to maintain or terminate a significant number of unassigned IT professionals, resulting in a higher number of unassigned IT professionals and/or significant termination expenses. The loss of any significant client or project could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our client contracts, including those with our two largest customers, typically can be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our clients typically retain us through non-exclusive master service agreements (“MSA”). Most of our client project contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price and fixed-price service level agreement (“SLA”) basis can be terminated with or without cause, with zero to ninety days notice and without termination-related penalties. Our MSAs typically do not include any commitment by our clients to give us a specific volume of business or future work. Additionally, certain of our MSAs do not require the client to make payments for any 25 Table of Contents services or work reasonably deemed unacceptable to the client. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, many of which are outside our control, which might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a client and we could face liabilities as a result of such termination. Our clients may demand price reductions, change their outsourcing strategy by limiting the number of suppliers they use, moving more work in-house or to our competitors or replacing their existing software with packaged software supported by licensors. Any of these decisions or actions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may face difficulties in providing services within our industry and technology practices, offering new and existing service lines and managing increasingly large and complex projects, which could lead to clients discontinuing their work with us. We have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements by extending the breadth of our practices and the services we offer. The success of our new practices and service offerings is dependent, in part, upon demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract existing and new clients for such new services or effectively meet our clients’ needs. We intend for the increased breadth of our practices and service offerings to result in larger and more complex projects for our clients. To achieve this result, we need to establish closer relationships with our clients and develop a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on the proficiency of our management personnel, software professionals and, if necessary subcontractors, as well as other competitive factors such as our performance and delivery capability. Larger and more complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and failure to plan appropriately may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An inability to recruit and retain IT professionals will adversely affect our ability to deliver our services. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled IT employees, and our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a sufficient number of skilled IT professionals and project managers who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Our failure to attract or retain qualified IT professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Wage increases in India and other countries where our competitive advantage is related to lower wage costs may adversely affect our cost structure. We have a significant offshore presence in India where a majority of our technical professionals are located. In the past, the Indian economy has experienced many of the problems confronting the economies of developing countries, including high inflation and varying gross domestic product growth. Salaries and other related benefits constitute a major portion of our total operating costs. Most of our employees are based in India where our wage costs have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India or other countries where we have our operations may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins which would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Clients may seek to reduce their dependence on India for outsourced IT services or take advantage of the services provided in countries with labor costs similar to or lower than India. Clients which presently outsource a significant proportion of their IT services requirements to vendors in India may, for various reasons, including to diversify geographic risk, seek to reduce their dependence on one country. We expect that future competition will increasingly include firms with operations in other countries, especially those countries with labor costs similar to or lower than India, such as China, the Philippines and countries in Eastern Europe. Since wage costs in our industry in India are increasing, our ability to compete effectively will become increasingly dependent on our reputation, the quality of our services and our expertise in specific industries. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant variations. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring, attrition and utilization rates and the mix of time-and-material projects versus fixed-price deliverable projects and maintenance projects during the quarter. Additionally, periodically our cost increases due to both the hiring of new employees and strategic investments in infrastructure in anticipation of future opportunities for revenue growth. We recognize revenues on time-and-material projects as the services are performed. Revenues related to fixed-price contracts that provide for complex information technology application development services are recognized as the services are performed using the percentage of completion method with input (cost to cost) method while contracts that do not provide for complex information technology development services are recognized as the services are performed using proportional performance basis with input (efforts expended) method. Contracts with no stated deliverables, with a designated workforce assigned, recognize revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Although fixed-price deliverable projects have not contributed significantly to revenues and profitability to date, operating results may be adversely affected in the future by cost overruns on fixed-price deliverable projects. Because a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in our operating results. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets were $671.8 million, which represented 39.2% of total consolidated assets. We refer the reader to Footnote 12 (in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the results of our annual impairment evaluation. If our infrastructure investments do not coincide with increased growth in our business, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our business model includes developing and operating global development centers in order to support our Global Delivery Model. We have global development centers located in Australia, Mexico, Canada, the U.S. and India. We are in the process of expanding our global development center in Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad, all located in India. We are developing these facilities in expectation of increased growth in our 27 Table of Contents business. If our business does not grow as expected, we may not be able to benefit from our investment in this and other facilities, thereby incurring fixed cost, which will likely reduce our profitability. Founders have significant influence over the Company. Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, co-chairmen and the co-founders of iGATE, beneficially own approximately 43.3% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2012, and therefore have significant influence in respect of matters requiring shareholder approval. The loss of the services of key members of our Senior Leadership Team would have an adverse impact on our business. Our success is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, Phaneesh Murthy and our senior management team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. Although each executive has entered into an employment agreement containing non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants, these contracts do not guarantee that they will continue their employment with us or that such covenants will be enforceable. If we lose the service of any of the key executives, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations and meet our ongoing and future business challenges and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any disruption in the supply of power, IT infrastructure and telecommunications lines to our facilities could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs. Any disruption in basic infrastructure, including the supply of power, could negatively impact our ability to provide timely or adequate services to our clients. We rely on a number of telecommunications service and other infrastructure providers to maintain communications between our various facilities and clients in India, the United States and elsewhere. Telecommunications networks are subject to failures and periods of service disruption which can adversely affect our ability to maintain active voice and data communications among our facilities and with our clients. Such disruptions may cause harm to our clients’ business. We do not maintain business interruption insurance and may not be covered for any claims or damages if the supply of power, IT infrastructure or telecommunications lines is disrupted. This could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs, materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses. We completed the acquisition of Patni on May 12, 2011. We expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions, intended to enhance or add to our offerings of services and solutions, or enable us to expand in certain geographic and other markets. Depending on the opportunities available, we may increase the amount of investment in such acquisitions. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates. We also might not succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire. Ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. In addition, we might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate and retain employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. We may have difficulties as a result of entering into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. We might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. We may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company, including from terminated employees, current or former clients, or other third parties, and may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. If we are unable to complete the 28 Table of Contents number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock are senior obligations, rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation and have other terms, such as a put right and a mandatory conversion date, that could negatively impact the value of shares of our common stock. We have issued $330 million of Series B Preferred Stock to Viscaria Limited. The rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation rank senior to similar obligations to our common stock holders. Upon our liquidation or upon certain changes of control, the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities, an amount equal to the greater of the outstanding principal plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such Series B Preferred Stock (which cumulative dividends accrue at the rate of 8% per annum and compound quarterly) and the amount such holders would have received if such Series B Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock provide rights to their holders that could negatively impact our Company. Subject to receiving necessary shareholder approvals, if any, under the rules of the NASDAQ, shares of our Series B Preferred Stock may be converted at any time at the option of the holder at an initial conversion price of $20.30 per share (which conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events). The Series B Preferred Stock have a put right that provides the holder the right to require us to purchase its shares of Series B Preferred Stock (for an amount equal to the outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon) at the date that is six years after the latest applicable issuance date thereof (subject to extension in limited circumstances). This put right could expose us to a liquidity risk if we do not have sufficient cash resources at hand or are not able to find financing on sufficiently attractive terms to comply with our obligations to repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock upon exercise of such put. Further, so long as Viscaria Limited and certain other holders affiliated with Viscaria Limited own in the aggregate at least one half of Viscaria Limited’s initial equity investment in iGATE, no dividends on our common stock (or any other equity securities junior in right to the Series B Preferred Stock) may be paid without the consent of a majority of such holders. To the extent any dividend, distributions or other payments are made on our common stock, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall have the right to participate on an as converted basis in any such dividends, distributions or other payments. The existence of such a senior security could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Viscaria Limited, an affiliate of Apax Partners LLP and Apax Partners, L.P. is a significant shareholder in our Company and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. In connection with the Patni Acquisition, we entered into the Viscaria Purchase Agreement, with Viscaria Limited, a company backed by funds advised by Apax Partners LLP and Apax Partners, L.P., pursuant to which we (a) have sold to Viscaria Limited 330,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of this ownership, Viscaria Limited, among other things, has elected one of the directors to our Board of Directors and can increase it to two directors in the event that the size of our Board of Directors increases to 10 or more, and to veto certain actions, including rejecting proposed mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, issued and outstanding Series B Preferred Stock would represent approximately 23.4% of the current voting power at a meeting of our stockholders. The interests of Viscaria Limited and its affiliates may differ from our other stockholders in material respects. For example, Viscaria Limited may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings (including financings that are secured and senior to the notes) or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. Viscaria Limited or its affiliates or 29 Table of Contents advisors are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. You should consider that the interests of these holders may differ from yours in material respects. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate the cash required to service our debt. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness, and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and our future financial results are expected to be, subject to substantial fluctuations, and will depend upon general economic conditions and financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, before maturity, seek additional equity capital, reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures or sell material assets or operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay our debt or refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to fund our liquidity needs. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders under each of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility, as applicable, immediately due and payable, and such lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility, as applicable. If the amounts outstanding are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the banks or to our debt holders. The Indenture, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business and could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The Indenture, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock); • make investments; • create liens; • sell assets; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility including our inability to comply with the financial covenants could result in an event of default there under, which would allow the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Packing Credit Facility, as applicable, to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger an event of default under the 30 Table of Contents Indenture and, potentially, our other indebtedness. At maturity or in the event of an acceleration of payment obligations, we would likely be unable to pay our outstanding indebtedness with our cash and cash equivalents then on hand. We would, therefore, be required to seek alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, terms as favorable as our current agreements or at all, or face bankruptcy. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or find alternative means of financing our operations, we may be required to curtail our operations or take other actions that are inconsistent with our current business practices or strategy. Our earnings may be adversely affected if our subsidiary, Patni receives an adverse determination resulting from a pending tax review of its domestic or foreign operations. We face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of current taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the amount of deductions, transfer pricing and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. To the extent we are able to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of such accruals, our effective tax rates in a given financial statement period may be materially affected. Additionally, we operate in several countries and our failure to comply with the local tax regime may result in additional taxes, penalties and enforcement actions. To the extent we do not comply with tax-related regulations, our profitability will be adversely affected. If we do not effectively manage our anticipated expansion growth by continuing to implement systems enhancements and other improvements, our ability to deliver quality services may be adversely affected. We had experienced significant growth in our operations in the last five years, except in 2009, where our revenues had dropped due to the economic downturn. The situation has improved now as compared to 2009, due in part to our acquisition of Patni, with sequential quarter on quarter revenue growth. The global economy is showing signs of recovery, however, there is no guarantee that the current growth will continue. This uncertainty places significant demands on our management, and our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services may suffer thereby negatively affecting our brand and operating results. Our anticipated expansion and growth in international markets heightens these risks as a result of the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could impact our ability to manage our growth, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other natural and manmade disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other natural and manmade disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses and be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. For instance, on account of the natural calamities in Japan in March 2011, and the resulting fallout of nuclear radiation from damaged nuclear power plants, we were required to temporarily relocate some of the employees from our offices in Japan to India. In addition, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption, which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products or services from us. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents If our Company or its subsidiaries fail to maintain and enhance the brands and the competitive advantages they afford us, demand for our services may be adversely affected. The brand identity that we have developed has contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the Company brands is critical to expanding our customer base and other strategic partners. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in the IT and IT-enabled services market. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology pioneer and continue to provide high-quality services, which we may not do successfully. If we fail to maintain and enhance the Company brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 