ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with the Termination of the Plan of Liquidation and the Pursuit of Alternative Growth Strategies As described in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, a proposal to terminate the plan of liquidation was approved at the special meeting on November 8, 2007. There are significant risks associated with terminating the plan of liquidation and pursuing alternative growth strategies. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: The Company will be confronted by significant challenges as it attempts to grow its operations. The Company seeks to grow within areas of historical expertise and areas that management considers to be of logical interest, but will also pursue acquisitions and other business combinations. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could evaluate and pursue, our ability to consummate a transaction may be limited by our available financial resources. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. The Company may also issue shares of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities to complete a business combination. We may issue options or other equity awards to our new management or the management of a target business in a business combination, both of which would reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders and could cause a change in control. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination or otherwise expand our business will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, all of whom joined us following the termination of the plan of liquidation, or those who would prospectively join in conjunction with a business combination. 5 Finally, our financial resources may initially dictate that we will only be able to complete one business combination or growth initiative, which will cause us to be increasingly dependent on a single business and its products or services. In this case, we may not be able to satisfactorily diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities, which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Our ability to utilize NOLs to offset future taxable income could be reduced significantly, or eliminated, by our strategic plans following the termination of the Plan of Liquidation or events outside of our control. The Company currently has approximately $82 million in federal income tax net operating losses (NOLs). Our ability to preserve these NOLs for future use by us or the surviving corporation in a business combination is dependent on numerous rules and regulations. It is possible that the ownership shift that would accompany some of the business combination opportunities the Company could pursue following the termination of the plan of liquidation would result in a substantial reduction in available NOLs. The available NOLs could also be reduced substantially if some or all of our significant stockholders increase their proportional ownership in the Company through open market purchases of common stock. However, the amount of available NOLs resulting from a change in ownership depends on factors such as the market price of our common stock, market capitalization, changes in ownership over time, prevailing interest rates and the nature and structure of any business combinations. Changes in any of these variables between the date of our illustration and any future change in ownership could decrease the available NOLs to an amount substantially below $13 million. In addition, if the sale of our remaining golf course assets occurs within two years of a change of ownership, our available NOLs could be eliminated. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The average daily trading volume of our common stock has historically been relatively low and is likely to continue to be low. As a result of this relatively low trading volume, our stock price can be highly volatile. Any large sales could have a negative effect on our stock price and its volatility. If we fail to meet American Stock Exchange listing standards in the future, the American Stock Exchange could delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors' ability to complete transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. The Company's common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange. The delisting of our common stock from trading on the Exchange could have adverse consequences, including a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock, a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company, a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future and reduced attractiveness as a business combination partner. If we are unable to retain certain key executives and staff members to conduct normal business operations, financial results may be negatively impacted, as well as our ability to remain a timely filer. Our ability to continuously maintain operations will depend to a large extent on the experience and ability of our chairman, president and chief executive officer, Michael C. Pearce, and his experience and familiarity with our assets, counter-parties and the market for related assets. We believe that a loss of Mr. Pearce's services could materially harm our ability to maximize existing assets and develop avenues for expansion. We are highly dependent on the services of Tracy S. Clifford, our chief financial officer. If Ms. Clifford were to resign, we would likely seek to hire a replacement for her, the cost of which would 6 depend on our determination of the experience and skills that must be possessed by her replacement in light of our financial condition, our assets, and the complexity of any issues bearing on us at that time. If we are unable to retain certain key executives and staff members, ordinary business operations and regulatory compliance timeliness may be jeopardized. Risk Factors Relating to Stonehenge Risks related to the ongoing ownership and operation of Stonehenge include: We face competition to acquire additional members to Stonehenge and maintain existing memberships. Membership to Stonehenge is affected by competition from comparable courses in the surrounding areas, including courses that have opened, reopened or been significantly upgraded in recent years. Additional memberships, if attained, will result in increased net operating revenues. However, preferences regarding location, aesthetics and other factors affecting the desirability or marketability of membership to private courses can, and often do, change from time to time. Accordingly, we cannot predict with any certainty whether or not Stonehenge will undergo short-term or long-term growth in desirability for prospective members. Failure to maintain sufficient membership growth could adversely affect the future financial performance of Stonehenge. The operations of Stonehenge are subject to risks that could have an adverse affect on their financial performance. The operations of Stonehenge are subject to operating risks such as adverse weather conditions (including heavy prolonged rains and hurricanes), employee-related issues (including labor shortages and disruptions), blight or other diseases affecting grass or other vegetation and costs of merchandise, equipment and supplies. If the operations of Stonehenge are impeded by any such factors beyond our control, the financial performance of Stonehenge could be adversely affected. Ownership of Stonehenge could result in potential environmental liability. As owner of Stonehenge, we are subject to potential liability under federal and state environmental laws for contamination that might exist on the property, regardless of whether we caused or were otherwise responsible for the contamination. Accordingly, not only could substantial legal fees be required to defend against government or private party action, but we could also incur significant remediation costs and the value of Stonehenge could be substantially reduced. That increase in costs and decrease in value would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict future changes in the interpretation and administration of current environmental law and the enactment of new environmental legislation or regulations. Compliance with new or more stringent laws and the more strict interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us to ensure that the Stonehenge golf courses comply with those laws. Those increased costs would also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 