RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is highly risky. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, before you decide whether to buy our common stock. We believe the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant risks we face. If any of the following events actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We will require significant capital investment to continue our product development programs and to bring future products and product enhancements to market, and if adequate funding is not available, our financial condition will be adversely affected and we may have to further curtail or eliminate our development programs and significantly reduce our expenses or be forced to cease operations. Our investment of capital has been and will continue to be significant. Developing our technology, future products and continued product enhancements, including those of the Levacor VAD and other technologies, requires a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research and clinical trials necessary for such development and regulatory approval. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs (including our lead Levacor VAD program) or obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, potential products or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. In addition, while in November 2006 and August 2008, we embarked on significant restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, we may be required to further reduce our operating expenses, including but not limited to, reductions in salaries and/or elimination of employees and consultants or cessation of operations. We believe that cash on hand, will be sufficient to support our planned operations through the end of 2011. We are continuing to explore strategic and financing alternatives, including equity financing transactions and corporate collaborations. The inability to obtain additional financing or enter into strategic relationships when needed will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital from any of these sources, we may need to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures. If we are not able to reduce or defer our expenditures, secure additional sources of revenue or otherwise secure additional funding, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and we may be forced to restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. 11 Table of Contents We have had substantial losses since incorporation and expect to continue to operate at a loss while our products are under development, and we may never become profitable. Since our inception in 1996 through December 31, 2010, we have incurred cumulative losses of approximately $353.2 million, a significant portion of which relates to the costs of internally developed and acquired technologies. Our research and development expenses have increased over the past years, primarily due to our investment in the development programs for the Levacor VAD device. Our research and development activities will likely result in additional significant losses in future periods. These expenditures include costs associated with performing pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for our current and next generation products, continuing research and development, seeking regulatory approvals and, if we receive these approvals, commencing commercial manufacturing, sales and marketing of our products. We may be unable to complete our BTT study or obtain regulatory approvals, which will prevent us from selling our products and generating revenue. Most countries, including the United States and countries in Europe require regulatory approval prior to the commercial distribution of medical devices. In particular, implanted medical devices generally are subject to rigorous clinical testing as a condition of approval by the FDA and by similar authorities in Europe and other countries. The approval process is expensive and time consuming. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, government refusal to grant marketing approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The inability to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals for our products in the United States and the rest of the world will prevent us from selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we received IDE approval for our BTT clinical study in January 2010, in February 2011 we paused enrollment to make three device refinements based on initial clinical experience and the timeline for restarting the study is uncertain. During our BTT clinical trial, we have experienced unanticipated device issues or clinical outcomes, which caused us to delay our clinical trial. As a result of our device issues or unanticipated clinical outcomes, the FDA may impose additional conditions or restrictions that could also delay or stop our clinical trial. Any such delays or additional restrictions could impact our ability to reinitiate or complete our BTT study and ultimately submit and receive a PMA or could cause material delay in the time to approval, which in turn would have a material adverse impact on our business. The FDA or any other regulatory authority may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our applications, if and when made, and we may face significant difficulties and costs obtaining such approvals that could delay or preclude us from selling our products in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, such approvals, including the need for extended clinical trials or additional data as a prerequisite to approval, limitations on the intended use of our products, the restriction, suspension or revocation of any approvals obtained or any failure to comply with approvals obtained could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause us to change strategic direction. Our clinical trials may be subject to costly delays. In order to conduct clinical studies, we must generally receive an IDE approval for each indication from the FDA. Although we received IDE approval for our BTT clinical study in January 2010, in February 2011, we paused enrollment to make the three device refinements based on initial clinical experience and the timeline for restarting the study is uncertain. The completion of any of our clinical studies may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including: • subjects may not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect and/or subjects may be lost to follow-up; • subjects may experience adverse side effects or events related or unrelated to our products; 12 Table of Contents • clinical investigator experience may compel us to make device refinements to optimize the investigational device as each trial progresses, which may lead us to pause enrollment, as we did in February 2011, while such refinements are implemented; • third-party clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and practices or other third-party organizations may not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • after making design refinements, the FDA may need to review and approve them before we can reinitiate our BTT clinical trial; • defects in our devices, product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices; • vendor supply issues, manufacturing delays, or technical challenges in the production of devices; • the interim results of any of our clinical studies may be inconclusive or negative; and • regulatory inspections of our clinical study centers or manufacturing facilities may require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us non-compliant with regulatory requirements. In February 2011, we announced a pause in enrollment based on initial clinical experience in our Levacor VAD BTT clinical study pending implementation of certain device refinements and FDA review and approval. These device refinements include: the projection of the inflow cannula into the ventricle; the elimination of a false alarm that has led to controller exchanges; and, the optimization of surface finishing/coating manufacturing processes. The timeline for restarting our BTT clinical study is uncertain. If we were to experience other device issues or unanticipated clinical outcomes, the FDA might impose additional conditions or restrictions that could also delay or stop our clinical trial. Any such delays or additional restrictions could impact our ability to get our products approved or could cause material delay in the time period for approval which, in turn, would have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to change strategic direction. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes; if the data collected from pre-clinical and clinical trials of our product candidates is not sufficient to support approval by the FDA, our profitability and stock price could be adversely affected. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our devices, our devices are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. The clinical trials of any of our devices, including the Levacor VAD, could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the device. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable devices would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. We are dependent on a limited number of products. Our recent revenues have resulted primarily from sales of the Levacor VAD and related equipment in conjunction with our BTT clinical trial. In February 2011, we paused enrollment in our BTT clinical study, and the timeline for restarting the study is uncertain. Therefore, we may not attain any revenue as a result of the Levacor VAD sales in the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance depends primarily on our ability 13 Table of Contents to realign our resources to focus on the development, regulatory approval, introduction, customer acceptance and sales and marketing of the Levacor VAD. Prior to any commercial use, our products currently under development will require significant additional capital for research and development efforts, extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval. New product development is highly uncertain and unanticipated developments, clinical and regulatory delays, adverse or unexpected side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy could delay or prevent the commercialization of the Levacor VAD, minimally invasive VAD and PediaFlow VAD. Any significant delays in, or premature termination of, clinical trials of our products under development would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause us to change strategic direction. Market acceptance of our technologies and products is uncertain and our selling and distribution capability is limited and has been further reduced by our recent cost reduction initiatives. Our next-generation Levacor VAD must compete with other products as well as with other therapies for heart failure, such as medication, transplants, cardiomyoplasty and total artificial heart devices. In addition, although we believe that the DT market opportunity for VADs is significant, adoption rates have continued to be slower than anticipated. We have a limited number of technical support personnel compared with other medical device companies in our industry segment, which may put us at a further competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. Failure of our products to achieve significant market acceptance due to competitive therapies and our very limited selling and distribution capability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition and technological obsolescence of our products. In addition to competing with other less-invasive therapies for heart failure, including medications and pacing technology, our products, if regulatory approvals are obtained, will compete with ventricular assist technology being developed and sold by a number of other companies. Competition from medical device companies and medical device subsidiaries of healthcare and pharmaceutical companies is intense and expected to increase. Most of our competitors have financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources substantially greater than ours. Third parties may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are safer, more effective and more timely than those developed or marketed by us which could render our technology and products non-competitive or obsolete, or we may not be able to keep pace with technological developments or our competitors’ time frames, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, companies in similar businesses are entering into business combinations with one another, which may create more powerful or aggressive competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully as future markets evolve, and we may have to pursue additional acquisitions or other business combinations or strategic alliances. Increased competitive pressure could lead to lower sales and prices of our products, and this could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are limitations on third-party reimbursement for the cost of implanting our devices. Individual patients will seldom be able to pay directly for the costs of implanting our devices. Successful commercialization of our products will depend in large part upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the treatment and medical costs from third-party payers, including governmental and private health insurers and managed care organizations. Consequently, we expect that our products will typically be purchased by healthcare providers, clinics, hospitals and other users who will bill various third-party payers, such as government programs and private insurance plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. 14 Table of Contents The coverage and the level of payment provided by third-party payers in the United States and other countries vary according to a number of factors, including the medical procedure, third-party payer, location and cost. In the United States, many private payers follow the recommendations for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which establish guidelines for governmental coverage of procedures, services and medical equipment. There can be no assurance with respect to any markets in which we seek to distribute our products that third-party coverage and reimbursement will be adequate, that current levels of reimbursement will not be decreased in the future or that future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our products or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis, particularly if the installed cost of our systems and devices should be more expensive than competing products or procedures. The unavailability of third-party payer coverage or the inadequacy of reimbursement would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights, including those relating to our Levacor VAD, are and will continue to be, a critical component of our success. The loss of critical licenses, patents or trade secret protection for technologies or know-how relating to our current product and our products in development could adversely affect our business prospects. Our business will also depend in part on our ability to defend our existing and future intellectual property rights and conduct our business activities free of infringement claims by third parties. We intend to seek additional patents, but our pending and future patent applications may not be approved, may not give us a competitive advantage and could be challenged by others. Patent proceedings in the United States and in other countries may be expensive and time consuming. In addition, patents issued by foreign countries may afford less protection than is available under United States intellectual property law, and may not adequately protect our proprietary information. Our competitors may independently develop proprietary non-infringing technologies and processes that are substantially similar to ours, or design around our patents. In addition, others could develop technologies or obtain patents, which would render our patents and patent rights obsolete. We could encounter legal and financial difficulties in enforcing our licenses and patent rights against alleged infringers. The medical device industry and cardiovascular device market, in particular, is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive and the outcome of this litigation is difficult to predict. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion for our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek additional licenses from third parties, pay damages and/or royalties that may be substantial or force us to redesign the related product. These alternatives may be uneconomical or impossible. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if additional licenses are necessary they would be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including the Levacor VAD and the minimally invasive VAD. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require 15 Table of Contents disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. We are exposed to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to Levacor VAD and other future products, by device recipients or by their families. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage held by us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain physician acceptance of our products, to expand our business or obtain insurance in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with our manufacturing operations, risks resulting from dependence on third-party vendors, and risks related to dependence on sole suppliers. The manufacture of our products is a complex operation involving a number of separate processes and components. Material costs are high and certain of the manufacturing processes involved are labor-intensive. The conduct of manufacturing operations is subject to numerous risks, including reliance on third-party vendors, unanticipated technological problems and delays. From time to time, we have experienced manufacturing challenges and delays, and we may experience manufacturing challenges and delays in the future. For example, we are currently making certain device refinements which have caused us to pause enrollment in our BTT study. Any such challenges or delays, if significant, could negatively affect our ability to develop and deliver our products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including clinical trial enrollment, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we, or any entity manufacturing products or components on our behalf, may not be able to comply with applicable governmental regulations or satisfy regulatory inspections in connection with the manufacture of our products, which would have a material or adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, any of our own manufacturing problems or those of the third-party vendors we rely on could result in potential defects in our products, exposing us to product liability, claims and product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices. We often depend on single-source third-party vendors for several of the components used in our products. We do not have agreements with many of such single-source vendors and purchase these components pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. We are substantially dependent on the ability of these vendors to provide adequate inventories of these components on a timely basis and on favorable terms. These vendors also produce components for certain of our competitors, as well as other large customers, and there can be no assurance that such companies will have sufficient production capacity to satisfy our inventory or scheduling requirements during any period of sustained demand, or that we will not be subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays. Although we believe that our relationships with our vendors are satisfactory and that alternative sources for the components we currently purchase from single-source suppliers are currently available, the loss of the services of such vendors or substantial price increases imposed by these vendors, in the absence of readily available alternative sources of supply, would have a material adverse effect on us. Failure or delay by such vendors in supplying components to us on favorable terms could also adversely affect our operating margins and our ability to develop and deliver our products on a timely and competitive basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel. As a result of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and key management personnel. We face intense competition for such persons and we may not be able to attract or retain such individuals. Our restructuring, cost reduction and consolidation efforts in August 2008 may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on an annual basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose on a quarterly basis any material changes in those internal controls. As described in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with regard to having sufficient technical resources to appropriately analyze and account for complex derivative instruments, specifically with regard to our interpretation of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity, as it relates to the initial classification of warrants as equity instruments in our October 2010 private placement of common stock and warrants (October Offering). During the audit, we determined that we should have accounted for these warrants as liabilities instead of equity. Given this material weakness, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In light of the material weakness described above, we performed additional analysis and other post-closing procedures to ensure our financial statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, we believe that the financial statements included in this report fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. To remediate this issue, we plan to devote resources to the improvement of our internal control over financial reporting, in particular over handling of complex derivative accounting issues. As the Company enters into transactions that involve complex accounting issues, it will consult with third party professionals with expertise in these matters as necessary to insure appropriate accounting treatment for such transactions. The elements of our remediation plan can only be accomplished over time and we can offer no assurance that these initiatives will ultimately have the intended effects. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations or may lose confidence in our reported financial information. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and NASDAQ, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business or have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken and plan to take in the future will remediate the material weakness identified or that any additional material weaknesses or restatements of our financial statements will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of those controls. The value of our warrants outstanding from the October Offering is subject to potentially material increases and decreases based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. In October 2010, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock. Gross proceeds from the October Offering were approximately $25.3 million. We issued an aggregate of 11,850,118 newly-issued shares of common stock at an issue price of $2.135 per share. Additionally we issued warrants to purchase up to 11,850,118 additional shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.31 per share. 17 Table of Contents We account for the warrants as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the warrants are included under other income (expense) in the Company’s statements of operations for each reporting period. At December 31, 2010, the aggregate fair value of the warrant liability included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet was $13.6 million. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the warrants. As a result, the option-pricing model requires the input of several assumptions, including the stock price volatility, share price and risk free interest rate. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. While the liability may only result from a change of control, we could, at that point in time, ultimately incur amounts significantly different than the carrying value. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to enrollment in our BTT study and FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for our product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulation and changes in medical device reimbursement policies; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of devices that we and our competitors develop; • fluctuations in our operating results; and • general market conditions. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. Currently our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “WHRT”. We must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain the NASDAQ Capital Market quotation, including certain governance requirements and a series of financial tests relating to stockholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and stockholder, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received notices from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating non-compliance with various listing maintenance requirements. On February 1, 2010, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter notifying us that we did not comply with the independent audit committee requirements set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5605. On October 28, 2008 and August 31, 2009, we received letters from the NASDAQ Staff notifying us that we failed to maintain a minimum of 500,000 publicly held shares requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(4). To date, we are in compliance with all minimum listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and all matters have been closed with NASDAQ. We have had difficulties maintaining compliance in the past and we might not be able to maintain compliance with all minimum listing requirements in the future. If we do not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements NASDAQ may take action to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. 18 Table of Contents The sales of common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. Sales by these stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur in the future, could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership, following the completion of the July 2008 private placement and recapitalization, the January 2010 private placement and the October 2010 private placement, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. A significant amount of our common stock is held by a relatively small number of investors. After the completion of our financing in October 2010, three of our largest stockholders collectively beneficially owned approximately 71% of our common stock. These investors also have certain rights to designate members of our Board of Directors and may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including elections of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of WorldHeart or our assets for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their common stock unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell them. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt. Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions, along with Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, prohibiting certain business combinations with an interested stockholder, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. 