Item 1A. Risk Factors You should read carefully and consider the following risks and uncertainties because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the protection of depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. Cole Taylor Bank, as an Illinois-chartered member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the DFPR and by the Federal Reserve. We undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. Our failure to comply with state and federal regulations can lead to, among other things, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully satisfy the requirements imposed by the regulatory authorities that supervise us. Further, we are significantly impacted by the policies of the Federal Reserve, whose fiscal policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Regulatory restrictions and liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. Historically, our primary source of funds at the holding company level has been dividends received from the Bank. The Bank is subject to dividend restrictions set forth by regulatory authorities, whereby it may not, without prior approval of regulatory authorities, declare dividends in excess of the sum of the current year’s earnings plus the retained earnings from the prior two years. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank could not declare or pay dividends to us without the approval of regulatory authorities. In order to preserve capital, our Board of Directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Current and future liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to declare and pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future. We also have agreed, consistent with our past practice, to continue to provide our regulators notice before we pay dividends on our Series A and Series B preferred stock and the payment of interest on our trust preferred securities. At December 31, 2009, $12 million was outstanding under our $15 million revolving credit facility. We repaid all amounts outstanding under this facility in March 2010, and we do not expect to renew this facility with our current lender when it expires on March 31, 2010. Furthermore, we are committed to maintaining the Bank’s well capitalized status and made a $25.0 million capital contribution to the Bank during the first quarter of 2010. In order to maintain sufficient capital to act as a source of strength for our Bank, to better align our capital position to our peers and to support our future growth plans, we have developed a capital plan that anticipates increasing our capital levels in the second quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we intend to commence an offering to issue 1,200,000 shares of our common stock to induce the holders of our Series A preferred stock to convert their preferred shares into shares of our common stock. We also intend to pursue a $60 million private placement of shares of convertible preferred stock and subordinated notes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise such capital on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are not able to raise capital on terms that are acceptable to us, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to serve as a source of strength to the Bank and we likely will be required to scale back our future growth and take other measures to improve our financial condition. In addition, our inability to raise additional equity would likely impact our ability to pay dividends on our issuances of preferred stock, and pay interest on our junior subordinated debt and the related issuance of trust preferred securities. 9 Table of Contents The UST may also impose additional limitations on our ability to use funds we received from our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), including the payment of dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. For example, we are currently prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock without the UST’s consent until the earlier of November 21, 2012 or the date on which the UST no longer holds any of our Series B preferred stock. If we are unable to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future, the market value of such securities may be materially adversely affected. Our regulators could require us to maintain additional regulatory capital. At December 31, 2009, both we and our Bank were categorized as “well capitalized” under the regulatory capital framework. Our regulators have the ability to require us to maintain higher capital levels. If our regulators required the Bank to hold additional capital above the well capitalized level, we would either have to make an additional capital contribution to the Bank, have the Bank raise regulatory capital, or reduce our asset levels. During the first quarter of 2010, we increased the Bank’s capital levels by making a $25.0 million capital contribution from the holding company. In order to maintain sufficient capital to act as a source of strength for our Bank, to better align our capital position to our peers and to support our future growth plans, we have developed a capital plan that anticipates increasing our capital levels in the second quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we intend to commence an offering to issue 1,200,000 shares of our common stock to induce the holders of our Series A preferred stock to convert their preferred shares into shares of our common stock. We also intend to pursue a $60 million private placement of shares of convertible preferred stock and subordinated notes. The inability to attract new capital investments or our ability to attract the capital on acceptable terms to us, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values under various liquidation scenarios, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, the impact of competition on our underwriting terms, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are exacerbated by the significant uncertainties surrounding not only our borrowers’ probability of default, but also the fair value of the underlying collateral. The current illiquidity in the real estate market has increased the uncertainty with respect to real estate values. Because of the degree of uncertainty and the sensitivity of valuations to the underlying assumptions regarding the holding period until sale and the collateral liquidation method, our actual losses may significantly vary from our current estimates. Our commercial loans and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risk than residential real estate loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of our customers’ businesses, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by the ability of our customers to execute on their business strategies and may be adversely impacted by adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. If our customers are unable to successfully operate their businesses, our actual losses on our commercial loans may exceed our current estimates. 10 Table of Contents In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Such regulators may require us to make additional provisions to the allowance, recognize additional loan charge-offs based upon their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examinations, or require us to reduce the level of nonperforming assets. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or result in decreased standing with our regulators and result in additional capital requirements. We are subject to lending concentration risks. We have focused on repositioning our portfolio to reduce our exposure to industries and sectors that we no longer considered economically desirable. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. These loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and, therefore, have higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. Credit quality issues on larger commercial loans, if they were to occur, could cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans and the deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. New residential home sales continue to be at depressed levels, increasing financial stress on our real estate developer customers and adversely impacting their ability to repay their loan obligations as agreed. Further deterioration in the credit quality of our real estate construction loans would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to respond effectively to unanticipated deposit volatility. As a part of our liquidity management, we must ensure we can respond effectively to potential volatility in our customers’ deposit balances. In 2009, we improved our liquidity position by increasing the amount of funding from our core customers in order to reduce reliance on brokered funding. We have customers that maintain significant deposit balances, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse affect on our daily liquidity management. In addition, the number of branches we maintain is small relative to our size, which hinders our ability to acquire deposits. We could encounter difficulty meeting a significant deposit outflow, in which case our capital position, reputation or profitability could be negatively affected. We primarily use advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”), broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet our immediate liquidity needs. If we fail to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility, our business, financial condition and reputation could be materially adversely affected. Reduced access to wholesale funding sources may hinder our ability to replace deposit withdrawals and support our operations and future growth. We must maintain access to sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. While we have increased our funding from our core customers to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding, we continue to use brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits, out-of-local-market certificates of deposit, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and FHLB and FRB advances as a source of liquidity. Under FDIC regulations, only “well-capitalized institutions” may issue brokered CDs without prior regulatory approval. The Bank is currently categorized as “well-capitalized” and therefore may continue to utilize this funding source. Brokered CD distributors may use other criteria in determining which banks to allow to issue brokered CDs through their distribution network. If our access to the brokered CD market were reduced in any material respect, it could lead to an inability to replace brokered deposits at maturity, which would result in higher costs to, or reduced asset levels at, the Bank. 11 Table of Contents Our participation in the TARP CPP may place significant restrictions on our operations. Under the TARP CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock without the UST’s approval until November 21, 2012, unless all of our Series B preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares of our common stock and other securities is restricted. The consent of the UST generally is required for us to make any stock repurchases (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B preferred stock have been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. Further, we may not repurchase shares of our common stock or Series A preferred stock if we are in arrears on the payment of Series B Preferred dividends. Due to our participation in the TARP CPP, we are also subject to the UST’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the UST holds our Series B preferred stock, as most recently set forth in the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance on June 10, 2009 and apply to the five most highly compensated senior executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, and the next most 20 of our most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value or that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (ii) a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements, earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria; (iii) a prohibition on making “golden parachute payments” to senior executive officers and our next five most highly compensated employees; (iv) an agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year; (v) prohibitions on accruing and paying bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation to our five most highly paid employees other than restricted stock grants that do not fully vest during the TARP period, have a minimum 2-year vesting period and have a value of no more than one-third of the affected employee’s total annual compensation; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation paid to senior executive officers and our next 20 most highly compensated employees previously provided by TARP recipients if found by the UST to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to public interest; (vii) required establishment and posting of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures;” (viii) prohibitions on tax “gross ups” relating to severance, perquisites or other forms of compensation to the senior executive officers and our next 20 most highly compensated employees; (ix) disclosure of perquisites in excess of $25,000 that are paid to employees who are subject to bonus limitations; and (x) inclusion in a participant’s proxy statement for any annual stockholder meeting of a nonbinding “Say on Pay” stockholder vote on the compensation of executives. The restrictions on bonuses and incentive compensation in particular may result in us issuing additional shares of our common stock to compensate our executive officers that likely would result in dilution to our common stockholders and could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital on commercially acceptable terms. We are rated by several different rating agencies, including Fitch, IDC, LACE and Bankrate.com. Adverse operating results and other factors may reduce our ratings with these agencies, which could subject us to negative publicity, adversely impact our ability to acquire or retain deposits and increase our cost of borrowing or limit our asset growth. Also, our credit ratings are an important factor to the institutions that provide our sources of liquidity, and reductions in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. 12 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. These transactions may expose us to certain default risks. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to cover such risks, resulting in losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We are subject to interest rate risk. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest incurred on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., LIBOR and prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, our loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. As part of our asset and liability management process, we perform sensitivity analysis to determine our exposure to changes in interest rate and develop strategies to mitigate this exposure. We attempt to mitigate our interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities and using derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk associated with specific hedged items. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if an occurrence is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to the conditions of the local economy in which we operate and continued weakness in the local economy and the real estate markets may adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, where most of our loans are originated. The ongoing crisis caused by the current economic recession, 13 Table of Contents unemployment, changes in housing market values, changes in securities markets or by inflation or other factors could continue to impact our customers and their ability to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans, and the stability of our deposits. Our operating results have been negatively impacted by the continued historically high level of nonperforming loans in our commercial loan portfolio. Continued weakness in the Chicago metropolitan area economy may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including higher provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs, lower net interest income caused by an increase in nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs. In addition, we may be required to continue to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Continued adverse conditions in the local economy could also reduce demand for new loans and impair our ability to attract and retain deposits. Our business is subject to domestic and international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, competition, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, and consolidation within our customer base and within our industry. Because of uncertainty in the market, certain lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. Any resulting lack of available credit or any lack of confidence in the banking and financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in our market. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We have observed that the competition in our market for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for qualified commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market area. Our business strategy is dependent on our continued ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in senior management and customer relationship positions. We believe our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in key senior management and other positions. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly qualified relationship manager that will serve as the customer’s key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a “trusted advisor” for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Competition for experienced personnel is intense, and we may not be able to successfully retain and attract such personnel. Our recent operating losses have reduced our cash-based incentive awards. In addition, our participation in the TARP CPP program places limits on executive compensation. While we have not recently experienced significant employee turnover, the inability to retain and attract key personnel could negatively impact our operations. 14 Table of Contents New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to certain additional risks. During 2008, we expanded our asset-based lending initiative and in 2009, we announced the formation of a new residential mortgage loan origination line of business. From time to time, we will consider and may enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities can involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and we can give no assurance that our projected price and profitability targets will be attainable or that our efforts will be successful. These initiatives could also require us to enter geographical markets that are new to us. In addition, new lines of business and new products and services could significantly impact the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth. Our future success depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that result in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers who currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. Although we believe that we have the necessary resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, our growth strategy exposes us to certain risks and expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business would be materially harmed. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in branch expansion. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve a level of profitability that will justify the investment that we made in any such acquisition. We are subject to security risks relating to our internet banking activities that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees, and business relationships. 15 Table of Contents 