Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, inflation, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Borrowing and Securitization Activities Our growth is dependent on leverage, which may create other risks. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to grow our assets through the use of leverage. Leverage creates an opportunity for increased net income, but at the same time creates risks. For example, leveraging magnifies changes in our net worth. We will incur leverage only when there is an expectation that it will enhance returns. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, our ability to make expected minimum REIT dividend requirements to shareholders will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we were to liquidate, our debt holders and lenders will receive a distribution of our available assets before any distributions are made to our common shareholders. An interruption or reduction in the securitization market or our ability to access this market would harm our financial position. We are dependent on the securitization market because we securitize loans directly to finance our loan origination business and many of our whole loan buyers purchase our loans with the intention to securitize. A disruption in the securitization market could prevent us from being able to sell loans at a favorable price or at all. Factors that could disrupt the securitization market include an international liquidity crisis such as occurred in the fall of 1998, sudden changes in interest rates, a terrorist attack, an outbreak of war or other significant event risk, and market specific events such as a default of a comparable type of securitization. In addition, poor performance of our previously securitized loans could harm our access to the securitization market. In addition, a court recently found a lender and securitization underwriter liable for consumer fraud committed by a company to whom they provided financing and underwriting services. In the event other courts or regulators adopted the same liability theory, lenders and underwriters could be named as defendants in more litigation and as a result they may exit the business or charge more for their services, all of which could have a negative impact on our ability to securitize the loans we originate and the securitization market in general. A decline in our ability to obtain long-term funding for our mortgage loans in the securitization market in general or on attractive terms or a decline in the market’s demand for our loans could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Failure to renew or obtain adequate funding under warehouse repurchase agreements may harm our lending operations. We are currently dependent upon several warehouse purchase agreements to provide short term financing of our mortgage loan originations and acquisitions. These warehouse purchase agreements contain numerous representations, warranties and covenants, including requirements to maintain a certain minimum net worth, minimum equity ratios and other customary debt covenants. If we were unable to make the necessary representations and warranties at the time we need financing, we would not be able to obtain needed funds. In addition, if we breach a covenant contained in any warehouse agreement, the lenders under all existing warehouse agreements could demand immediate payment of all outstanding amounts because all of our warehouse agreements contain cross-default provisions. Any failure to renew or obtain adequate funding under these financing arrangements for any reason, or any demand by warehouse lenders for immediate payment of outstanding balances could harm our lending operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, an increase in the cost of warehouse financing in excess of any change in the income derived from our mortgage assets could also harm our earnings and reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In October 1998, the subprime mortgage loan market faced a liquidity crisis with respect to the availability of short-term borrowings from major lenders and long-term borrowings through securitization. At that time, we faced significant liquidity constraints which harmed our business and our profitability. Financing with warehouse repurchase agreements may lead to margin calls if the market value of our mortgage assets declines. We use warehouse repurchase agreements to finance our acquisition of mortgage assets in the short-term. In a warehouse repurchase agreement, we sell an asset and agree to repurchase the same asset at some point in time in the future. Generally, the 13 Table of Contents repurchase agreements we enter into provide that we must repurchase the asset in 30 days. For financial accounting purposes, these arrangements are treated as secured financings. We retain the assets on our balance sheet and record an obligation to repurchase the asset. The amount we may borrow under these arrangements is generally 95% to 100% of the asset market value with respect to mortgage loans and 65% to 80% of the asset market value with respect to mortgage securities—available-for-sale. When, in a lender’s opinion, asset market values decrease for any reason, including a rise in interest rates or general concern about the value or liquidity of the assets, we are required to repay the margin or difference in market value, or post additional collateral. If cash or additional collateral is unavailable to meet margin calls, we may default on our obligations under the applicable repurchase agreement. In that event, the lender retains the right to liquidate the collateral we provided it to settle the amount due from us. In addition to obtain cash, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which would cause us to incur losses and could change our mix of investments, which in turn could jeopardize our REIT status or our ability to rely on certain exemptions under the Investment Company Act. We have credit exposure with respect to loans we sell to the whole loan market and loans we sell to securitization entities. When we sell whole loans or securitize loans, we have potential credit and liquidity exposure for loans that are the subject of fraud, that have irregularities in their documentation or process, or that result in our breaching the representations and warranties in the contract of sale. In addition, when we sell loans to the whole loan market we have exposure for loans that default. In these cases, we may be obligated to repurchase loans at principal value, which could result in a significant decline in our available cash. When we purchase loans from a third party that we sell into the whole loan market or to a securitization trust, we obtain representations and warranties from the counter-parties that sold the loans to us that generally parallel the representations and warranties we provided to our purchasers. As a result, we believe we have the potential for recourse against the seller of the loans. However, if the representations and warranties are not parallel, or if the original seller is not in a financial position to be able to repurchase the loan, we may have to use cash resources to repurchase loans, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Competition in the securitization market may negatively affect our net income. Competition in the business of sponsoring securitizations of the type we focus on is increasing as Wall Street broker-dealers, mortgage REITs, investment management companies, and other financial institutions expand their activities or enter this field. Increased competition could reduce our securitization margins if we have to pay a higher price for the long-term funding of these assets. To the extent that our securitization margins erode, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects will be negatively impacted. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our mortgage securities—available-for-sale could adversely affect our financial position. Currently, our securitizations of mortgage loans are structured to be treated as sales for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, result in gain recognition at closing. As of December 31, 2005, we had mortgage securities – available for sale with a fair value of $505.6 million on our balance sheet. Delinquency, loss, prepayment and discount rate assumptions have a material impact on the amount of gain recognized and on the carrying value of the retained mortgage securities—available-for-sale. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in determining the amount of gain on sale and the value of our mortgage securities – available for sale. If our actual experience differs materially from the assumptions that we use to determine our gain on sale or the value of our mortgage securities—available-for-sale, our future cash flows, our financial condition and our results of operations could be negatively affected. Changes in accounting standards might cause us to alter the way we structure or account for securitizations. Changes could be made to the current accounting standards, which could affect the way we structure or account for securitizations. For example, if changes were made in the types of transactions eligible for gain on sale treatment, we may have to change the way we account for securitizations, which may harm our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Interest Rates and Our Hedging Strategies Changes in interest rates may harm our results of operations. Our results of operations are likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. Interest rate changes could affect us in the following ways: • a substantial or sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate or acquire mortgage loans in expected volumes, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow and in our ability to support our fixed overhead expense levels; 14 Table of Contents • interest rate fluctuations may harm our earnings as the spread between the interest rates we pay on our borrowings and the interest rates we receive on our mortgage assets narrows; • mortgage prepayment rates vary depending on such factors as mortgage interest rates and market conditions, and changes in anticipated prepayment rates may harm our earnings; and • when we securitize loans, the value of the residual and subordinated securities we retain and the income we receive from them are based primarily on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and an increase in LIBOR reduces the net income we receive from, and the value of, these securities. Any of the foregoing results from changing interest rates may adversely affect our results from operations. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may enter into interest rate cap or swap agreements or pursue other interest rate hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on interest rates, the type of mortgage assets held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • hedging instruments involve risk because they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities; consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions, and the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay, which may result in the loss of unrealized profits; and • we may not be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risks. Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. We attempt to minimize exposure to interest rate fluctuations by hedging. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge mortgage assets and related borrowings by requiring us to limit our income in each year from any qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified real estate assets, to no more than 25% of our gross income. The interest rate hedges that we generally enter into will not be counted as a qualified asset for the purposes of satisfying this requirement. In addition, under the Code, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedging transactions and from other non-qualifying sources to no more than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. In addition, if it is ultimately determined that certain of our interest rate hedging transactions are non-qualified under the 15 Table of Contents Code, we may have more than 5% of our annual gross income from non-qualified sources. If we violate the 5% or 25% limitations, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of those limitations, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. In addition, if we fail to observe these limitations, we could lose our REIT status unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. Risks Related to Credit Losses and Prepayment Rates Loans made to nonconforming mortgage borrowers entail relatively higher delinquency and default rates which would result in higher loan losses. Lenders in the nonconforming mortgage banking industry make loans to borrowers who have impaired or limited credit histories, limited documentation of income and higher debt-to-income ratios than traditional mortgage lenders allow. Mortgage loans made to nonconforming mortgage loan borrowers generally entail a relatively higher risk of delinquency and foreclosure than mortgage loans made to borrowers with better credit and, therefore, may result in higher levels of realized losses. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on loans beginning when we originate them. In whole loan sales, our risk of delinquency and default typically only extends to the first payment but can extend up to the third payment. When we securitize any of our loans, we continue to be exposed to delinquencies and losses, either through our residual interests for securitizations structured as sales or through the loans still recorded on our balance sheet for securitizations structured as financings. We also re-acquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. Any failure by us to adequately address the delinquency and default risk associated with nonconforming lending could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to manage credit risk may not be successful in limiting delinquencies and defaults in underlying loans and, as a result, our results of operations may be affected. There are many aspects of credit that we cannot control and our quality control and loss mitigation operations may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our comprehensive underwriting process may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss on the underlying loans. Further, the value of the homes collateralizing residential loans may decline due to a variety of reasons beyond our control, such as weak economic conditions, natural disasters, over-leveraging of the borrower, and reduction in personal incomes. The frequency of defaults and the loss severity on loans upon default may be greater than we anticipated. Interest-only loans, negative amortization loans, adjustable-rate loans, reduced documentation loans, sub-prime loans, home equity lines of credit and second lien loans may involve higher than expected delinquencies and defaults. Changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws, and other laws may exacerbate loan losses. Expanded loss mitigation efforts in the event that defaults increase could increase our operating costs. To the extent that unforeseen or uncontrollable events increase loan delinquencies and defaults, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Mortgage insurers may in the future change their pricing or underwriting guidelines or may not pay claims resulting in increased credit losses. We use mortgage insurance to mitigate our risk of credit losses. Our decision to obtain mortgage insurance coverage is dependent, in part, on pricing trends. Mortgage insurance coverage on our new mortgage loan production may not be available at rates that we believe are economically viable for us or at all. We also face the risk that our mortgage insurers might not have the financial ability to pay all claims presented by us or may deny a claim if the loan is not properly serviced, has been improperly originated, is the subject of fraud, or for other reasons. Any of those events could increase our credit losses and thus adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Option ARM mortgage product exposes us to greater credit risk There has been an increase in production of our loan product which is characterized as an option ARM loan. There have been recent announcements by federal regulators concerning interest-only loan programs, option ARM loan programs and other ARM loans with deeply discounted initial rates and/or negative amortization features. Federal banking regulators have expressed serious concerns with these programs and an intent to issue guidance shortly concerning offerings of these products. In addition, already one rating agency (Standard & Poors) has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by option ARMs. The combination of these events could lead to the loan product becoming a less available financing option and hence this could have a material affect on the value of such products. 16 Table of Contents Our interest-only loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing loans. For the year ended December 31, 2005, originations of interest-only loans totaled $2.0 billion, or 22%, of total originations. These interest-only loans require the borrowers to make monthly payments only of accrued interest for the first 24, 36 or 120 months following origination. After such interest-only period, the borrower’s monthly payment is recalculated to cover both interest and principal so that the mortgage loan will amortize fully prior to its final payment date. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the smaller monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. If the monthly payment increases, the related borrower may not be able to pay the increased amount and may default or may refinance the related mortgage loan to avoid the higher payment. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related loans would be greater than otherwise would be the case for a fully-amortizing loan, increasing the risk of loss on these loans. Current loan performance data may not be indicative of future results. When making capital budgeting and other decisions, we use projections, estimates and assumptions based on our experience with mortgage loans. Actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially in adverse ways from those projected, due to factors including changes in general economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, fluctuations in mortgage loan prepayment rates and fluctuations in losses due to defaults on mortgage loans. These differences and fluctuations could rise to levels that may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in prepayment rates of mortgage loans could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, access to liquidity and results of operations. The economic returns we expect to earn from most of the mortgage assets we own are affected by the rate of prepayment of the underlying mortgage loans. If the loans underlying our mortgage securities—available-for-sale prepay at a rate faster than we have anticipated, our economic returns on those assets will be lower than we have assumed which would reduce our earnings, cash flows and dividends. Adverse changes in cash flows from a mortgage asset resulting from accelerated prepayments would likely reduce the asset’s market value, which would likely reduce our access to liquidity if we borrowed against that asset and may cause a market value write-down for GAAP purposes, which would reduce our reported earnings. Changes in loan prepayment patterns can affect us in a variety of other ways that can be complex and difficult to predict. In addition, our exposure to prepayment changes over time. As a result, changes in prepayment rates will likely cause volatility in our financial results in ways that are not necessarily obvious or predictable and that may adversely affect our results of operations. Geographic concentration of mortgage loans we originate or purchase increases our exposure to risks in those areas, especially in California and Florida. Over-concentration of loans we originate or purchase in any one geographic area increases our exposure to the economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area. Declines in the residential real estate markets in which we are concentrated may reduce the values of the properties collateralizing our mortgages which in turn may increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy, or losses from those loans. To the extent that a large number of loans are impaired, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. To the extent that we have a large number of loans in an area hit by a natural disaster, we may suffer losses. Standard homeowner insurance policies generally do not provide coverage for natural disasters, such as hurricanes and floods. Furthermore, nonconforming borrowers are not likely to have special hazard insurance. To the extent that borrowers do not have insurance coverage for natural disasters, they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. A natural disaster that results in a significant number of delinquencies could cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters, and that in turn could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Uninsured losses due to the Gulf State hurricanes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The damage caused by the Gulf State hurricanes, particularly Katrina, Rita and Wilma, has affected the value of our portfolio of mortgage loans held-for-sale and the mortgage loan portfolio we service which underlies our mortgage securities – available-for-sale by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. At present, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the Gulf State hurricanes on our future financial results and condition as the impact will depend on a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the hurricanes adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their 17 Table of Contents loans, and the cost to us of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers. Many of the loans are to borrowers where repayment prospects have not yet been determined to be diminished, or are in areas where properties may have suffered little, if any, damage or may not yet have been inspected. We currently have a mortgage protection insurance policy, which protects us from uninsured losses as a result of these hurricanes up to a maximum of $5 million in aggregate losses with a deductible of $100,000 per hurricane. To the extent that losses exceed the $5 million aggregate loss insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, there is no guarantee the insurance company will pay our claims, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A prolonged economic slowdown or a decline in the real estate market could harm our results of operations. A substantial portion of our mortgage assets consist of single-family mortgage loans or mortgage securities—available-for-sale evidencing interests in single-family mortgage loans. Because we make a substantial number of loans to credit-impaired borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on these loans could be higher during economic slowdowns. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for our loans, the values of our mortgage loans held for sale or our residual interests in securitizations, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken our collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage asset arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment in Which We Operate Various legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In the course of our business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” The resolution of these legal matters or other legal matters could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets, we could be required to repurchase these loans and may not be able to sell or liquidate the loans, which could negatively affect our liquidity. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we occasionally foreclose and take title to residential properties and as a result could become subject to environmental liabilities associated with these properties. We may be held liable for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred in connection with environmental contamination. These costs could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Regulation as an investment company could harm our business; efforts to avoid regulation as an investment company could limit our operations. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, if deemed applicable to us, would prevent us from conducting our business as described in this document by, among other things, substantially limiting our ability to use leverage. The Investment Company Act does not regulate entities that are primarily engaged, directly or indirectly, in a business “other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities,” or that are primarily engaged in the business of “purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Under the Commission’s current interpretation, in order to qualify for the latter exemption we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in “qualifying real estate interests” and at least an additional 25% of our assets in other real estate-related assets or additional qualifying real estate interests. If we rely on this exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our ability to invest in assets that would otherwise meet our investment strategies will be limited. If we are subject to the Investment Company Act and fail to qualify for an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act, we could not operate our business efficiently under the regulatory scheme imposed by the Investment Company Act. Accordingly, we could be required to restructure our activities which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with federal, state or local regulation of, or licensing requirements with respect to, mortgage lending, loan servicing, broker compensation programs, or other aspects of our business could harm our operations and profitability. As a mortgage lender, loan servicer and broker, we are subject to an extensive body of both state and federal law. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan origination and servicing activities. As a result, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify and accurately interpret all of these laws and regulations and to properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Also, in our branch operations, we allow our branch managers relative autonomy, which could result in our facing greater exposure to third-party claims if our compliance programs are not strictly adhered to. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; inability to sell or securitize our loans; demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these results could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. New legislation could restrict our ability to make mortgage loans, which could harm our earnings. Several states, cities or other government entities are considering or have passed laws, regulations or ordinances aimed at curbing predatory lending practices. The federal government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing thresholds for defining a “high-cost” loan and establish enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such loans. Passage of these laws and rules could reduce our loan origination volume. In addition, many whole loan buyers may elect not to purchase any loan labeled as a “high cost” loan under any local, state or federal law or regulation. Rating agencies likewise may refuse to rate securities backed by such loans. Accordingly, these laws and rules could severely restrict the secondary market for a significant portion of our loan production. This would effectively preclude us from continuing to originate loans either in jurisdictions unacceptable to the rating agencies or that exceed the newly defined thresholds which could harm our results of operations and business prospects. If lenders are prohibited from originating loans in the State of Illinois with fees in excess of 3% where the interest rate exceeds 8%, this could force us to curtail operations in Illinois. In March 2004, an Illinois Court of Appeals found that the Illinois Interest Act, which caps fees at 3% for loans with an interest rate in excess of 8%, is not preempted by federal law. This ruling contradicts the view of the Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal, most state courts and the Illinois Office of the Attorney General. In November 2004, the Illinois Supreme Court decided to consider an appeal to this case. If this ruling is not overturned, we may reduce operations in Illinois since it will reduce the return we and our investors can expect on higher risk loans. Moreover, as a result of this ruling, plaintiffs are filing actions against lenders, including us, seeking various forms of relief as a result of any fees received in the past that exceeded the applicable thresholds. Any such actions, if decided against us, could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are no longer able to rely on the Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act to preempt certain state law restrictions on prepayment penalties, which could harm our earnings. Certain state laws restrict or prohibit prepayment penalties on mortgage loans and, until July 2003, we relied on the federal Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act, or the Parity Act, and related rules issued in the past by the Office of Thrift Supervision, or OTS, to preempt state limitations on prepayment penalties. The Parity Act was enacted to extend to financial institutions, like us, which are not federally chartered depository institutions, the federal preemption that federally chartered depository institutions enjoy. However, in September 2002, the OTS released a rule that reduced the scope of the Parity Act preemption and, as a result, we are no longer able to rely on the Parity Act to preempt state restrictions on prepayment penalties. The elimination of this federal preemption has required us to comply with state restrictions on prepayment penalties. These restrictions prohibit us from charging any prepayment penalty in certain states and limit the amount or other terms and conditions of our prepayment penalties in several other states. This places us at a competitive disadvantage relative to financial institutions that will continue to enjoy federal preemption of such state restrictions. Such institutions are able to charge prepayment penalties without regard to state restrictions and, as a result, may be able to offer loans with interest rate and loan fee structures that are more attractive than the interest rate and loan fee structures that we are able to offer. This competitive disadvantage could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Changes in Internal Revenue Service regulations regarding the timing of income recognition and/or deductions could materially adversely affect the amount of our dividends. On September 30, 2004, the IRS, released Announcement 2004-75, which describes rules that may be included in proposed IRS regulations regarding the timing of recognizing income and/or deductions attributable to interest-only securities. We believe the 19 Table of Contents effect of these regulations, if adopted, may narrow the spread between book income and taxable income on the interest-only securities we hold and would thus reduce our taxable income during the initial periods that we hold such securities. A significant portion of our mortgage securities—available-for-sale consist of interest-only securities. If regulations are adopted by the IRS that reduce our taxable income in a particular year, our dividend may be reduced for that year because the amount of our dividend is entirely dependent upon our taxable income. If we fail to maintain REIT status, we would be subject to tax as a regular corporation. We conduct a substantial portion of our business through our taxable REIT subsidiaries, which creates additional compliance requirements. We must comply with numerous complex tests to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, including the requirement that we distribute 90% of taxable income to our shareholders and the requirement that no more than 5% of our annual gross income come from non-qualifying sources. If we do not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to penalty taxes and our REIT status could be at risk. We conduct a substantial portion of our business through taxable REIT subsidiaries, such as NovaStar Mortgage. Despite our qualification as a REIT, our taxable REIT subsidiaries must pay federal income tax on their taxable income. Our income from, and investments in, our taxable REIT subsidiaries do not constitute permissible income or investments for some of the REIT qualification tests. We may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or our taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent that our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are deemed not to be arm’s length in nature. Our cash balances and cash flows may become limited relative to our cash needs, which may ultimately affect our REIT status or solvency. We use cash for originating mortgage loans, minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements, and other operating needs. Cash is also required to pay interest on our outstanding indebtedness and may be required to pay down indebtedness in the event that the market values of the assets collateralizing our debt decline, the terms of short-term debt become less attractive or for other reasons. If our income as calculated for tax purposes significantly exceeds our cash flows from operations, our minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could exceed the amount of our available cash. In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our access to liquidity, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in an adverse cash flow situation, our REIT status or our solvency could be threatened. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property but including any mortgage loans held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell a loan or securitize the loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of such inventory for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans other than through our taxable REIT subsidiaries and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our portfolio of mortgage loans from time to time even if we believe it would be in our best interest to do so. Even if we qualify as a REIT, the income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal income tax and we could be subject to an excise tax on non-arm’s-length transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including NovaStar Mortgage, expect to earn income from activities that are prohibited for REITs, and will owe income taxes on the taxable income from these activities. For example, we expect that NovaStar Mortgage will earn income from our loan origination and sales activities, as well as from other origination and servicing functions, which would generally not be qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs or might otherwise be subject to adverse tax liability if the income were generated by a REIT. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be taxable as C corporations and will be subject to federal, state and local income tax at the applicable corporate rates on their taxable income, notwithstanding our qualification as a REIT. In the event that any transactions between us and our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis, we could be subject to a 100% excise tax on certain amounts from such transactions. Any such tax could affect our overall profitability and the amounts of cash available to make distributions. We may, at some point in the future, borrow funds form one or more of our corporate subsidiaries. The IRS may recharacterize the indebtedness as a dividend distribution to us by our subsidiary. Any such recharacterization may cause us to fail one or more of the REIT requirements. 20 Table of Contents We may be harmed by changes in tax laws applicable to REITs or the reduced 15% tax rate on certain corporate dividends may harm us. Changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code applicable to the taxation of REITs, may harm our business. New legislation may be enacted into law or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could harm us and our shareholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Generally, dividends paid by REITs are not eligible for the 15% U.S. federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends, with certain exceptions. The more favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause domestic non-corporate investors to consider stocks of other corporations that pay dividends as more attractive relative to stocks of REITs. We may be unable to comply with the requirements applicable to REITs or compliance with such requirements could harm our financial condition. The requirements to qualify as a REIT under the Code are highly technical and complex. We routinely rely on legal opinions to support our tax positions. A technical or inadvertent failure to comply with the Code as a result of an incorrect interpretation of the Code or otherwise could jeopardize our REIT status. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and 95% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws, mainly interest and dividends. We are subject to various limitations on our ownership of securities, including a limitation that the value of our investment in taxable REIT subsidiaries, including NovaStar Mortgage, cannot exceed 20% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter. In addition, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of our assets must be qualifying real estate assets, government securities and cash and cash items. The need to comply with these asset ownership requirements may cause us to acquire other assets that are qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT requirements (for example, interests in other mortgage loan portfolios or mortgage-related assets) but are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. Moreover, we may be unable to acquire sufficient qualifying REIT assets, due to our inability to obtain adequate financing or otherwise, in which case we may fail to qualify as a REIT or may incur a penalty tax at the REIT level. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain). After-tax earnings generated by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and not distributed to us are not subject to these distribution requirements and may be retained by such subsidiaries to provide for future growth, subject to the limitations imposed by REIT tax rules. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We expect in some years that we will be subject to the 4% excise tax. We could be required to borrow funds on a short-term basis even if conditions are not favorable for borrowing, or to sell loans from our portfolio potentially at disadvantageous prices, to meet the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income taxes. These alternatives could harm our financial condition and could reduce amounts available to originate mortgage loans. If we fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us, and we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income. This would substantially reduce our earnings and our cash available to make distributions. The resulting tax liability, in the event of our failure to qualify as a REIT, might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps that could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a technical REIT requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we generally would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. We could lose our REIT status if more than 20% of the value of our total assets are represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries at the close of any calendar quarter. To qualify as a REIT, not more than 20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries at the close of any calendar quarter, subject to a 30-day “cure” period following the close of the quarter and, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005, subject to certain relief provisions even after the 30-day cure period. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including NovaStar Mortgage, conduct a substantial portion of our business activities, including a majority of our loan origination and servicing activities. If the IRS determines that the value of our investment in our taxable REIT subsidiaries was more than 20% of the value of our total assets at the close of any calendar quarter, we could lose our REIT status. 21 Table of Contents In certain cases, we may need to borrow from third parties to acquire additional qualifying REIT assets or increase the amount and frequency of dividends from our taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to comply with the 20% of assets test. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock Investors in our common stock may experience losses, volatility and poor liquidity, and we may reduce or delay payment of our dividends in a variety of circumstances. Our earnings, cash flow, book value and dividends can be volatile and difficult to predict. Investors should not rely on predictions or management beliefs. Although we seek to pay a regular common stock dividend at a rate that is sustainable, we may reduce our dividend payments in the future for a variety of reasons. We may not provide public warnings of such dividend reductions or payment delays prior to their occurrence. Fluctuations in our current and prospective earnings, cash flow and dividends, as well as many other factors such as perceptions, economic conditions, stock market conditions, and the like, can affect the price of our common stock. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. In addition, liquidity in the trading of our common stock may be insufficient to allow investors to sell their stock in a timely manner or at a reasonable price. Restrictions on ownership of capital stock may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for holders of our capital stock to receive a premium for their securities. In order for us to meet the requirements for qualification as a REIT, our charter generally prohibits any person from acquiring or holding, directly or indirectly, (i) shares of our common stock in excess of 9.8% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock or (ii) shares of our capital stock in excess of 9.8% in value of the aggregate outstanding shares of our capital stock. These restrictions may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for the holders of our capital stock to receive a premium for their stock that might otherwise exist in the absence of such restrictions. The market price of our common stock and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated changes in our future financial performance; • actual or anticipated changes in market interest rates; • actual or anticipated changes in our access to capital; • actual or anticipated changes in the amount of our dividend or any delay in the payment of a dividend; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; • the operations and stock performance of our competitors; • developments in the mortgage lending industry or the financial services sector generally; • the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • the activities of investors who engage in short sales of our common stock; • actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders; 22 Table of Contents • additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and • actions by institutional shareholders. Our common stock may become illiquid if an active public trading market cannot be sustained, which could adversely affect the trading price and your ability to transfer our common stock. Our common stock’s trading volume is relatively low compared to the securities of many other companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your shares of our common stock may be limited. We may issue additional shares that may cause dilution and may depress the price of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to: • authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over our outstanding common stock with respect to voting; and • classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. In the future, we will seek to access the capital markets from time to time by making additional offerings of securities, including debt instruments, preferred stock or common stock. Additional equity offerings by us may dilute your interest in us or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our outstanding shares of preferred stock have, and any additional series of preferred stock may also have, a preference on distribution payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to common shareholders. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Thus, our common shareholders will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. Past issuances of our common stock pursuant to our 401(k) plan and our Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan may not have complied with the registration requirements of the securities laws. We maintain a number of equity-based compensation plans for our employees, including a 401(k) plan, and DRIP for our employees and the public. Up to approximately 23,000 shares of common stock under our 401(k) plan and up to approximately 287,000 shares of common stock under our DRIP (collectively, the “Subject Shares”), may have been sold in a manner that may not have complied with the registration requirements of applicable securities laws during the twelve month period ending January 20, 2006, the date the rescission offers were initiated. In connection with sales under our 401(k) plan, the Subject Shares were purchased in the open market and as a result we did not receive any proceeds from such transactions, which may not be deemed to be sales for these purposes. In connection with sales of up to approximately 287,000 Subject Shares that were not registered under our DRIP in May 2005, we received approximately $10.8 million in net proceeds. As a result, we initiated offers to rescind the purchase of the Subject Shares. While we do not expect all eligible purchasers to exercise their rescission rights pursuant to the rescission offers, we have agreed to repurchase the Subject Shares still held by eligible purchasers generally for an amount equal to the original purchase price for the shares plus interest, less dividends, and to compensate eligible purchasers generally for any losses incurred in the sale of the Subject Shares, plus interest, less dividends. The number of eligible purchasers and the amount that we will pay for the shares that are rescinded will be determined by reference to the closing price of our common stock on March 30, 2006, the expiration date of the rescission offers. Furthermore, we could be subject to monetary fines or other regulatory sanctions as provided under applicable securities laws. Other Risks Related to our Business Intense competition in our industry may harm our financial condition. We face intense competition, primarily from consumer finance companies, conventional mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, and other independent wholesale mortgage lenders, including internet-based lending companies and other mortgage REITs. Competitors with lower costs of capital have a competitive advantage over us. In addition, establishing a 23 Table of Contents mortgage lending operation such as ours requires a relatively small commitment of capital and human resources, which permits new competitors to enter our markets quickly and to effectively compete with us. Furthermore, national banks, thrifts and their operating subsidiaries are generally exempt from complying with many of the state and local laws that affect our operations, such as the prohibition on prepayment penalties. Thus, they may be able to provide more competitive pricing and terms than we can offer. Any increase in the competition among lenders to originate nonconforming mortgage loans may result in either reduced income on mortgage loans compared to present levels, or revised underwriting standards permitting higher loan-to-value ratios on properties securing nonconforming mortgage loans, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or business prospects. In addition, the government-sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, may also expand their participation in the subprime mortgage industry. To the extent they materially expand their purchase of subprime loans, our ability to profitably originate and purchase mortgage loans may be adversely affected because their size and cost-of-funds advantage allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are willing to offer. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of independent brokers, our loan origination business will decrease. A significant majority of our originations of mortgage loans comes from independent brokers. During 2005, 75% of our loan originations were originated through our broker network. Our brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Our failure to maintain existing relationships or expand our broker networks could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that drive our dividend distributions, and our consolidated balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows as reported for GAAP purposes may be difficult to interpret. We manage our business based on long-term opportunities to earn cash flows. Our dividend distributions are driven by the REIT tax laws and our income as calculated for tax purposes pursuant to the Code. Our reported results for GAAP purposes differ materially, however, from both our cash flows and our taxable income. We transfer mortgage loans or mortgage securities—available-for-sale into securitization trusts to obtain long-term non-recourse funding for these assets. When we surrender control over the transferred mortgage loans or mortgage securities—available-for-sale, the transaction is accounted for as a sale. When we retain control over the transferred mortgage loans or mortgage securities available-for-sale, the transaction is accounted for as a secured borrowing. These securitization transactions do not differ materially in their structure or cash flow generation characteristics, yet under GAAP accounting these transactions are recorded differently. In a securitization transaction accounted for as a sale, we record a gain or loss on the assets transferred in our income statement and we record the retained interests at fair value on our balance sheet. In a securitization transaction accounted for as a secured borrowing, we consolidate all the assets and liabilities of the trust on our financial statements (and thus do not show the retained interest we own as an asset). As a result of this and other accounting issues, shareholders and analysts must undertake a complex analysis to understand our economic cash flows, actual financial leverage, and dividend distribution requirements. This complexity may cause trading in our stock to be relatively illiquid or may lead observers to misinterpret our results. Market values for our mortgage assets and hedges can be volatile. For GAAP purposes, we mark-to-market our non-hedging derivative instruments through our GAAP consolidated income statement and we mark-to-market our mortgage securities—available-for-sale through our GAAP consolidated balance sheet through other comprehensive income unless the mortgage securities are in an unrealized loss position which has been deemed as an other-than-temporary impairment. An other-than-temporary impairment is recorded through the income statement in the period incurred. Additionally, we do not mark-to-market our loans held for sale as they are carried at lower of cost or market, as such, any change in market value would not be recorded through our income statement until the related loans are sold. If we sell an asset that has not been marked-to-market through our income statement at a reduced market price relative to its basis, our reported earnings will be reduced. A decrease in market value of our mortgage assets may or may not result in a deterioration in future cash flows. As a result, changes in our GAAP consolidated income statement and balance sheet due to market value adjustments should be interpreted with care. 24 Table of Contents If we attempt to make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We depend on the continued service of our top executives, including our chief executive officer and president. To the extent that one or more of our top executives are no longer employed by us, our operations and business prospects may be adversely affected. We also depend on our wholesale account executives and retail loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents, borrowers and others. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled account executives at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to originate quality mortgage loans that we are able to sell for a profit, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is currently dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan applications and closings. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide process status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our process. Becoming proficient with new technology will require significant financial and personnel resources. If we become reliant on any particular technology or technological solution, we may be harmed to the extent that such technology or technological solution (i) becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards, (ii) fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our competitors’ equivalent technologies or technological solutions, (iii) becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and update, or (iv) becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent infringement. Any failure to acquire technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and could also limit our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our operating model, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our business could be adversely affected if we experienced an interruption in or breach of our communication or information systems or if we were unable to safeguard the security and privacy of the personal financial information we receive. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any material interruption or breach in security of our communication or information systems or the third-party systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. Additionally, in connection with our loan file due diligence reviews, we have access to the personal financial information of the borrowers which is highly sensitive and confidential, and subject to significant federal and state regulation. If a third party were to misappropriate this information, we potentially could be subject to both private and public legal actions. Our policies and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of confidential information, may become noncompliant with existing federal or state laws or regulations governing privacy, or with those laws or regulations that may be adopted in the future. Our inability to realize cash proceeds from loan sales and securitizations in excess of the loan acquisition cost could harm our financial position. The net cash proceeds received from loan sales consist of the premiums we receive on sales of loans in excess of the outstanding principal balance, plus the cash proceeds we receive from securitizations structured as sales, minus the discounts on loans that we have to sell for less than the outstanding principal balance. If we are unable to originate loans at a cost lower than the cash proceeds realized from loan sales, such inability could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 25 Table of Contents Market factors may limit our ability to acquire mortgage assets at yields that are favorable relative to borrowing costs. Despite our experience in the acquisition of mortgage assets and our relationships with various mortgage suppliers, we face the risk that we might not be able to acquire mortgage assets which earn interest rates greater than our cost of funds or that we might not be able to acquire a sufficient number of such mortgage assets to maintain our profitability. We face loss exposure due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, employees, mortgage brokers and other third parties. When we originate or purchase mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information provided to us by third parties, including information relating to the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is fraudulently or negligently misrepresented to us and such misrepresentation is not detected by us prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than we expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the loan broker, one of our employees, or any other third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with it. A loan subject to misrepresentation typically cannot be sold and subject to repurchase by us if it is sold prior to our detection of the misrepresentation. We may not be able to recover losses incurred as a result of the misrepresentation. Our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume increases the risk that our earnings will be harmed if the demand for this type of refinancing declines. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 59% of our loan production volume consisted of cash-out refinancings. Our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume increases the risk that our earnings will be reduced if interest rates rise and the prices of homes decline, which would reduce the demand and production volume for this type of refinancing. A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could significantly reduce the number of borrowers who would qualify or elect to pursue a cash-out refinancing and result in a decline in that origination source. Similarly, a decrease in home prices would reduce the amount of equity available to be borrowed against in cash-out refinancings and result in a decrease in our loan production volume from that origination source. Therefore, our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may enter into certain transactions at the REIT in the future that incur excess inclusion income that will increase the tax liability of our shareholders. If we incur excess inclusion income at the REIT, it will be allocated among our shareholders. A stockholder’s share of excess inclusion income (i) would not be allowed to be offset by any net operating losses otherwise available to the stockholder, (ii) would be subject to tax as unrelated business taxable income in the hands of most types of shareholders that are otherwise generally exempt from federal income tax, and (iii) would result in the application of U.S. federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (i.e., 30%), without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty, to the extent allocable to most types of foreign shareholders. How such income is to be reported to shareholders is not clear under current law. Tax-exempt investors, foreign investors, and taxpayers with net operating losses should carefully consider the tax consequences of having excess inclusion income allocated to them and are urged to consult their tax advisors. Excess inclusion income would be generated if we issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bear a relationship to the payments that we received on our mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those debt obligations. The structure of this type of CMO securitization generally gives rise to excess inclusion income. It is reasonably likely that we will structure some future CMO securitizations in this manner. Excess inclusion income could also result if we were to hold a residual interest in a REMIC. The amounts of excess inclusion income in any given year from these transactions could be significant. Some provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices. Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance 26 Table of Contents notice procedures. Finally, Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. These provisions, as well as others, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change in control and prevent changes in our management, even if such actions would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 