Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those described below, which in turn may affect the value of our securities. In addition, other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results and events may differ substantially from those discussed or highlighted in these forward-looking statements. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, FDIC funds, customers and the banking system as a whole, rather than stockholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. 14 Table of Contents As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. The Bank, as an Illinois-chartered state member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by both the IDFPR and the Federal Reserve. We and the Bank undergo periodic examinations by these regulators, which have extensive discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. The primary federal and state banking laws and regulations that affect us are described in this report under the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Business. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. For example, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with the regulations to be developed thereunder, includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. In addition, the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Further, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection was recently established, with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws, and additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. Such changes, including changes regarding interpretations and implementation, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to the Company’s reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to mitigate the risk any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The policies of the Federal Reserve also have a significant impact on us. Among other things, the Federal Reserve’s monetary policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in our market. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We also compete with nonbank financial service providers, including mortgage companies, finance companies, mutual funds and credit unions. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions that we are and may be able to compete more effectively as a result. We have observed that the competition in our market for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for qualified commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification as compared to some of our larger competitors. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market area. 15 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the conditions of the local economy in which we operate and continued weakness in the local economy and the real estate markets may adversely affect us. Our success is dependent to a large extent upon the general economic conditions in the Chicago area, where most of our banking and financial services are provided. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in Chicago have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Our operating results have been negatively impacted by the historically high level of nonperforming loans in our commercial loan portfolio. Continued weakness in the Chicago area economy has had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including higher provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs, lower net interest income caused by an increase in nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs. In addition, we may be required to continue to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Continued adverse conditions in the local economy could also reduce demand for new loans and other financial services and impair our ability to attract and retain deposits. Our business is subject to domestic and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could adversely affect our business. From December 2007 through June 2009, the United States economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the United States was greatly reduced. Although general economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak, and unemployment remains at historically high levels, including within the Chicago area, where most of our customers are located. In addition, local governments and many businesses continue to experience serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and decreased liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of customers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services the Company offers, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the state of Illinois generally and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors: economic growth; efficient capital markets; low inflation; low unemployment; high business and investor confidence; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by U.S. government sponsored entities. Further, concerns about the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally. Such risks could indirectly affect the Company by affecting its hedging or other counterparties, as well as the Company’s customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the euro or companies in the Company’s market with European businesses or affiliates. 16 Table of Contents Overall, during 2011, the business environment was unfavorable for many households and businesses in the United States. While economic conditions in the Chicago area, the state of Illinois and the United States have generally improved since the recession, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or occur at a meaningful rate. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, business, results of operations and financial condition. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and which may differ from actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and general reporting practices within the financial services industry, which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Some accounting policies, such as those pertaining to our allowance for loan loss and deferred tax asset and the necessity of any related valuation allowance, require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments under different assumptions or conditions, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in subsequent periods. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Making loans is a substantial part of our business, and every loan we make is subject to the risk that it will not be repaid or that any underlying collateral in the case of secured loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Among other things, the risk of non-payment is affected by: • changes in economic, market and industry conditions, • the credit risks associated with the particular borrower and type of loan, • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed, • the duration of the loan, and • opportunities to identify potential loan repayment issues when remedial action may be most effective. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is established through an accounting reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is adequate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes. Continuing deterioration in or stagnation of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and any underlying collateral, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, our federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and, based on judgments that differ from those of our management, may require an increase in our provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. Further, if loan charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the process for determining the appropriate level of our allowance for loan losses. 17 Table of Contents Our mortgage loan repurchase reserve for losses could be insufficient. We currently maintain a repurchase reserve, which is a liability on the Balance Sheets, to reflect best estimate of expected losses that have incurred on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce mortgage banking revenue. The level of the reserve reflects management’s continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, indemnifications, and present economic conditions, as well as the actions of loan purchasers and guarantors. The determination of the appropriate level of the secondary market reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses subsequently experienced. Both the assumptions and estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. If additional reserves are required, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk, including interest rate fluctuations that could reduce our profitability. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: • the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, • the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and • the average duration of the Company’s securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore, earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, if these strategies prove ineffective, or if any substantial, unexpected and prolonged change in market interest rates occurs, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates and market liquidity. We invest in MSRs to support mortgage banking strategies and diversify revenue streams from our mortgage banking segment. The value of these assets and the income they provide tend to be counter-cyclical to the changes in production volumes and gain on sale of loans. We also enter into derivatives to hedge MSRs to offset changes in fair value resulting from the actual or anticipated changes in prepayments and changing interest rate environments. The primary risk associated with MSRs is that in a declining interest rate environment, they will likely lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments. Conversely, 18 Table of Contents these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than previously estimated. Our hedging strategies are highly susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. In addition, hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, it may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings. Our residential mortgage lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and resell a high volume of mortgage loans. Mortgage production, especially refinancings, decline in rising interest rate environments. While we have been experiencing historically low interest rates, the low interest rate environment likely will not continue indefinitely. When interest rates increase, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in addition to our dependence on the interest rate environment, we are dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by the GSEs and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are government-sponsored enterprises whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect them could, in turn, adversely affect our operations. The impact on us of existing proposals to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were place into conservatorship in 2008, is difficult to predict. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by GSEs and other market participants. Our ability to remain eligible to originate and securitize government insured loans may also depend on having an acceptable peer-relative delinquency ratio for Federal Housing Administration (the “FHA”) loans. Any significant impairment of our eligibility with any of the GSEs could materially and adversely affect our operations. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations or other administrative costs. We have counterparty risk and therefore we may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are generally interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, credit or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions may expose us to credit or other risks if another financial institution experiences adverse circumstances. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to fully cover the risk that a counterparty defaults on its obligations, which may cause us to experience losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct, employee errors and operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of Company records and data. The Company relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Company transactions. In some cases, the Company has contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on behalf of the Company. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, loan and deposit processing, mortgage origination, secondary marketing, MSRs, servicing of mortgage loans and securities portfolio management. While the Company performs a review of controls instituted by the applicable vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Company must rely on the continued maintenance of controls by these third party vendors, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Company maintains, or contracts with third parties to maintain, backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Company may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or a breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. System failure or breaches of our network security, including with respect to our internet banking activities, could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use in our operations and internet banking activities could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Computer break-ins, “phishing” and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as that of our customers engaging in internet banking activities. In addition, advances in computer capabilities or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of our systems designed to protect customer data. Although we have procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of any of these potential problems and intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to mitigate the risk of such occurrences, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Any interruption in, or breach in security of, our computer systems and network infrastructure, or that of our internet 20 Table of Contents banking customers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lending concentration risks. We have focused on repositioning our portfolio to reduce our exposure to industries and sectors that we no longer consider economically desirable. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 90% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans of which approximately 35% are commercial real estate loans. Our commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and, therefore, have the potential for higher losses on an individual loan basis. Credit quality issues on larger commercial loans, if they were to occur, could cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans, and the amount of charge-offs and recoveries between periods. The deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The problems that have occurred in the residential real estate and mortgage markets throughout much of the United States also affected the commercial real estate market. In our market areas, we have generally experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, and in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience further deterioration in the performance of commercial real estate and other real estate loans in the future. In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or capital. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business and drives our ability to make new loans or invest in securities. In addition, the Company requires liquidity to meet its deposit and debt obligations as they come due. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or the economy generally. Factors that could reduce our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the Chicago area market, difficult credit markets or adverse regulatory actions against us. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Although we have increased our funding from our core customers to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding, we continue to use brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits, out-of-local-market certificates of deposit, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) advances as a source of liquidity. Under FDIC regulations, only “well-capitalized” institutions may issue brokered certificates of deposit (“CDs”) without prior regulatory approval. The Bank is currently categorized as “well-capitalized” and, therefore, may continue to utilize this funding source. Brokered CD distributors may use other criteria in determining which banks to allow to issue brokered CDs through their distribution network. If our access to the brokered CD market were reduced in any material respect, it could lead to an inability to replace brokered deposits at maturity, which would result in higher costs to, or reduced asset levels at, the Bank. 21 Table of Contents Our liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on our outstanding debt and equity instruments, capital we inject into the Bank, redemption of our previously issued debt, proceeds we raise through the issuance of debt and equity instruments, and dividends received from the Bank (if permitted). Our future liquidity position may be materially adversely affected if, in the future, one or a combination of the following events occur: • the Bank reports net losses or its earnings are weak relative to our cash flow needs as a holding company, • we deem it advisable or are required by our regulators to use cash at the holding company level to support loan growth of the Bank or address other capital needs of the Bank through downstream capital injections, or • we have difficulty raising cash at the holding company level through the issuance of debt or equity securities or accessing additional sources of credit. Given the losses recorded by the Bank from 2008 through 2010 and the resulting limitations imposed by our regulators on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us, we have been dependent upon our current cash position and cash proceeds generated by capital raises to meet liquidity needs at the holding company level. If we foresee that we face diminished liquidity, we may, to the extent possible, seek to manage this risk by reducing the amount of capital we inject into the Bank. This may further reduce the capital position of the Bank, cause our growth to slow and result in regulatory criticism. We are subject to liquidity risk, including unanticipated deposit volatility. Our usual liquidity management challenges include responding to potential volatility in our customers’ deposit balances. We primarily use advances from the FHLB, broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet our immediate liquidity needs. Since 2008, we have experienced a significant increase in client deposits, which has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this recent level of client deposit growth will continue, that client deposits will remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain the recent reduced reliance on wholesale deposits. Increased customer confidence in general economic conditions, higher expected rates of return on other investments (including a rise in interest rates) or additional restrictions on the availability of FDIC coverage could each cause our customers to move all or a portion of their deposits to other investment options, thus causing a reduction in our deposits and increasing our reliance on wholesale or other funding sources. In addition, we have customers that maintain significant deposit balances with us, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse affect on our daily liquidity management. Further, the number of branches we maintain is small relative to our asset size, which could negatively impact our ability to acquire new deposits. In the event that we experience a significant deposit outflow, our liquidity could be negatively impacted such that our capital position, reputation or profitability could also be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on business demand deposits could increase the Company’s interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on business demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, some financial institutions have commenced offering interest on these demand deposits to compete for customers. If competitive pressures require the Company to pay interest on these demand deposits to attract and retain business customers, its interest expense would increase and its net interest margin would decrease. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the effect of the repeal of the prohibition could be more significant in a higher interest rate environment as business customers would have a greater incentive to seek interest on demand deposits. 22 Table of Contents Changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital on commercially acceptable terms. We are rated by several different rating agencies, including IDC and Bankrate.com. Many factors, both within and out of our control, may cause these agencies to downgrade their ratings related to the Company, which could subject us to negative publicity, adversely impact our ability to acquire or retain deposits and increase our cost of borrowing or limit our asset growth. Also, our credit ratings are an important factor to the institutions that provide our sources of liquidity, and reductions in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. We cannot give any assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation, as discussed above and elsewhere in this report. When available, cash to pay dividends to stockholders of the Company is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Company’s ability to receive dividends or loans from the Bank is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Company in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if any proposed dividends are in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, as a structural matter, the Company’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of the Bank would be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which would take priority except to the extent the Company may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank had deposits and other liabilities of approximately $4.3 billion. Our business strategy is dependent on our continued ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in senior management and customer relationship positions. We believe our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in key senior management and other positions. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly qualified relationship manager that will serve as the customer’s key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a “trusted advisor” for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Competition for experienced personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel. Our recent operating results have reduced our cash-based incentive awards to senior management and other key employees. In addition, our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) places limits on executive compensation, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain certain key employees, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to such restrictions. Any inability to retain and attract key personnel could negatively impact our operations. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, financial condition or results of operations from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators, ratings agencies and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships. 23 Table of Contents New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to certain additional risks. From time to time, we will consider and may enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities can involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and we can give no assurance that our projected price and profitability targets will be attainable or that our efforts will be successful. These initiatives have required and will continue to require us to enter geographical markets that are new to us. In addition, new lines of business and new products and services could significantly impact the effectiveness of our system of internal controls, and present requirements for legal compliance with which we were previously unfamiliar. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties in managing our future growth. Our future success in part, depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that result in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers who currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our commercial banking strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. Our success will also depend in part on continued growth in our mortgage banking business. Our mortgage growth goals will necessitate further expansion of our national mortgage platform and, to a lesser degree, additional diversification of revenue streams from this business. Although we believe that we have the necessary resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, our growth strategy exposes us to certain risks and expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business would be materially harmed. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future, and we may engage in banking center expansion. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our regulators will permit us to implement an acquisition strategy. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve a level of profitability that will justify the investment that we made in any such acquisition. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws. The Company’s financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing federal and state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. For example, in January 2011, the State of Illinois passed an income tax increase for both individuals and corporations, which increased our state income tax rate. The further enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our participation in the TARP CPP may place significant restrictions on our operations. Under the TARP CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares of common stock is limited. Specifically, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock without the UST’s approval until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred have been redeemed or 24 Table of Contents transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and other securities is restricted. The consent of the UST generally is required for us to make any stock repurchases (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred have been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. Further, we may not repurchase shares of our common stock or shares of our Nonvoting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series D (“Series D Preferred”), and 8.0% Nonvoting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G (“Series G Preferred”), if we are in arrears on the payment of Series B Preferred dividends. Due to our participation in the TARP CPP, we are also subject to the UST’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the UST holds our Series B Preferred, as set forth in the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance on June 10, 2009. The compensation standards apply to certain of our senior executive officers and certain other of our most highly compensated employees and, among other things, place specific restrictions on the types and amounts of compensation that we may pay to these individuals. Certain of these restrictions may force us to issue additional shares of our common stock, rather than cash or other non-equity awards, to compensate and retain our executive officers. Any such common stock issuances likely would result in dilution to our common stockholders, which would have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Regulatory requirements, growth plans or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At December 31, 2011, both we and the Bank were categorized as “well-capitalized” under the applicable regulatory capital framework. To the extent regulatory requirements change, our future operating results erode capital or we seek to expand through loan growth or acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital in any such event would depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. The inability to attract new capital investment, or to attract capital on terms acceptable to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to maintain or expand our operations. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2008. In addition, regulatory restrictions and liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to make distributions on our outstanding securities. Historically, our primary source of funds at the holding company level has been dividends received from the Bank. In order to preserve capital, our Board of Directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Current and future liquidity constraints at the holding company level could continue to impair our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common or preferred stock or pay interest on our outstanding debt securities in the future. We also have agreed, consistent with our past practice, to continue to provide the Federal Reserve and the IDFPR with notice before we declare dividends on our common or preferred stock or pay interest on our debt securities. The UST may also impose additional limitations on our ability to use funds we received from our participation in the TARP CPP, including the payment of dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. For example, we are currently prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock without the UST’s consent until the earlier of November 21, 2012 or the date on which the UST no longer holds any shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (“Series B Preferred”). If we are unable to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future, the market value of such securities may be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 