ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS At any given time, the Company is subject to any number of risk factors that may affect the market price of the Company’s stock. Some of the specific risks include the following: The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could impair our earnings. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Bank is required to increase its reserve, current earnings will be reduced. Our experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Bank to charge-off the defaulted loan or loans. We provide for losses by reserving what we believe to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A charge-off reduces the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. If the Bank’s reserves were insufficient, it would be required to increase reserves by recording a larger provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings for that period. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which in turn may negatively affect the Company’s income and growth. Demand for loans may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: • customers may not want or need the Company’s products and services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Bank’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio may decline. 6 Any of these scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to charge-off a percentage of loans and/or increase the provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. A prolonged flat or inverted yield curve may reduce our net income and cash flows. The interest rate yield curve is normally upward sloping where absolute interest rates are higher as the maturity of the financial instrument lengthens. During 2006, the curve became inverted where rates were lower on longer-term maturities. If this condition persists throughout 2007, we will likely experience continued compression of our interest rate spread and related net interest rate margin, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Because the Bank competes primarily on the basis of the interest rates it offers depositors and the terms of loans it offers borrowers, the Bank’s margins could decrease if it were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans in response to competitive pressure. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. It competes primarily on the basis of its depository rates, the terms of the loans it originates and the quality of its financial and depository services. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates in our market areas. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to market entry, enabled banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and enabled non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Recent changes in federal banking law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which also will change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of the institutions with which we compete are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. A real estate downturn in our geographic markets could hurt our business because a majority of our loans are secured by real estate. If real estate prices decline the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling real estate collateral would be diminished and we would likely suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 60% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Missouri and Kansas. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of business. The office of the Comptroller of the Currency, The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC recently finalized joint supervisory guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of the community. Our commercial real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2006 meets the definition of a commercial real estate concentration as set forth in the guidelines. If our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs. Recent and possible future acquisitions could involve risks and challenges that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our profitability goals for acquired businesses or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. We have experienced strong growth in the past several years and our strategy of future growth, while not dependent on, might include the acquisition of banking branches, other financial institutions and other wealth management companies. However, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify suitable future acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition, combination or other transaction on acceptable terms and prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and integrate acquired businesses without adversely affecting our financial performance. In addition, all acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges that could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Business Continuity Plans may not adequately anticipate all risks. We are subject to events that could impact or disrupt our business, although our goal is to ensure continuous service delivery to our customers. We have undertaken an enterprise-wide Business Continuity Plan in order to respond to and guard against this risk. However, no plan can fully eliminate such risk and there can be no assurance that our Plan will be successful. Future Government Regulation Could Hinder Future Performance. The Company is a registered financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. Accordingly, both the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive government regulation, legislation and control. These laws limit the manner in which the Company operates. Management cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the 7 Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies could affect the Company in ways that are not currently determinable. Management cannot predict how any of these changes would adversely affect the Company’s business. Federal and state law limits the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends. In addition, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends on its common stock. Employees At December 31, 2006 we had approximately 329 full-time equivalent employees. None of the Company’s employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that its relationship with its employees is good. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS Not applicable. 