Risk Factors” beginning on page 31 below, factors that could cause differences between total annual contract value and revenues include unexpected contract terminations, reductions in customer activity, the application of our revenue recognition policies described under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Revenue Recognition” in Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”) and under “Revenue Recognition” in Note 1 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 below, and the arising of any contingencies that make deferral of revenue recognition appropriate under any given contract. We also caution that total annual contract value is different from backlog. Backlog typically excludes amounts already recognized as revenue, while total annual contract value may include amounts already recognized as revenue for portions of the current annual terms of our existing SubscribeNet contracts. In addition, total annual contract value includes fees paid, payable or expected for the current annual terms of our existing SubscribeNet contracts, even if we expect to provide the related services after our current fiscal year. Marketing Our central marketing goals are to attract and retain customers for our services. We target our marketing efforts to senior personnel across multiple departments in software companies and other mid-sized and large corporations. We use an integrated approach of targeted advertising; direct mail, email and online promotions; interactive web-based seminars, or “webinars”; event sponsorships; trade shows; brand-awareness campaigns; and regular meetings with existing customers to stimulate demand for our services, generate sales leads and maintain customer relationships. We employ a variety of tools to achieve our marketing goals. Our print and online advertising campaigns are designed to target senior personnel across multiple departments in software companies, and 7 educate them on our products and services. Our direct mail, email and online promotions are designed to highlight specific benefits of our services and offer limited-time incentives to enter into purchase or evaluation agreements. In our webinars, our senior executives and other panelists who may include independent IT analysts, senior executives of our customers and partners, and other industry experts, educate prospective customers on ESDM and other topics relevant to our business. Our co-branding with Software Spectrum for sales of Sun software and maintenance helps us penetrate highly qualified market segments. We also use trade shows, event sponsorships, and regional marketing to target key audiences, expand our customer base and heighten awareness of the “Intraware” brand. We also hold user conferences and periodic meetings with our customers to educate them on our service offerings, gather feedback from them about our services, and learn about their evolving requirements. Competition The ESDM market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our primary competition comes from our potential customers, including software companies and other companies that distribute software or digital goods, who choose to develop an in-house alternative to the SubscribeNet service. However, we also face increasing competition from a small number of other providers of outsourced electronic software delivery services. A number of these competitors have historically provided related services, such as e-commerce services, replication and distribution of physical media such as CDs, or product lifecycle management solutions, and relatively recently have begun to provide electronic software delivery services. We believe this trend will continue as software and other digital goods companies convert from physical to digital distribution of their products, stimulating additional demand for ESDM services. We believe we compete effectively as a result of our early deployment of a centralized, high-capacity, web-based, customizable ESDM solution containing valuable administrative and reporting tools. Principal competitive factors include: • the performance, features and functionality of an ESDM solution; • the comprehensiveness of the services offered by the ESDM provider, such as integration with licensing and physical fulfillment solutions; • the cost of a provider’s ESDM solution versus the cost of competing ESDM solutions or the cost to a potential customer of building, deploying and maintaining an alternative service in-house; • the ESDM provider’s experience in and focus on providing ESDM services; • the ESDM provider’s track record of successful project implementations; • positive references by the ESDM provider’s existing customers; and • the openness of an ESDM solution’s architecture and the ease with which it integrates with major customer relations management, order processing and enterprise resource planning systems used by software providers. We believe we compete effectively as to all of these factors. We believe our principal advantages include: • our relatively senior position as one of the first ESDM service providers; 8 • the depth and breadth of features and functionality of an ESDM solution; • our high-capacity, high-availability network for delivery of enterprise-class software applications rapidly and securely; • the suite of services that we offer through alliances, including licensing, desktop deployment, and on-demand physical fulfillment; • the price of our solution, particularly compared with the cost to software providers of developing and maintaining an alternative service in-house; • our strong track record of successful project implementations; • existing customers who are willing to provide positive references; • the flexibility of our solution, which is easily customized and integrated with customers’ ERP, CRM and licensing systems; and • our suite of administrative and reporting tools that add value for software companies and their end-users. Nevertheless, we face a number of competitive challenges. A key challenge is resistance from software companies that determine, for perceived strategic reasons or based on their cost assessments, that they do not wish to outsource electronic software delivery. Another principal challenge is our focus on ESDM, and our reliance on third-party alliances for key ancillary services such as hosted license generation and desktop deployment. While we believe our focus has enabled us to offer a superior ESDM solution to our competitors, and our integration with best-of-breed ancillary solutions addresses a broad set of customer needs, some prospective customers prefer this set of solutions to be supported by a single provider. A third principal challenge is our small size, as some large software providers prefer to outsource services to larger suppliers with greater resources. In addition, many of our competitors have longer and more profitable operating histories than we have. They may also have significantly greater financial and other resources, wider name recognition, and a larger installed base of customers (including non-ESDM customers) than we have. They also may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can, which would allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, many of our competitors have existing relationships with divisions of our current or potential customers, and may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage these customers from purchasing additional services or products from us, or may be able to persuade these customers to replace our services or products with their own. Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses Our future success depends in part on our proprietary rights and technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. Although we seek to take advantage of available intellectual property protections, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are more essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. To date, we own three U.S. patents on electronic commerce technologies, expiring in July 2016, September 2017, and February 2018, respectively. In addition, we have four patent applications pending in 9 the United States on our SubscribeNet ESDM technology. We plan to file additional patent applications on our SubscribeNet ESDM technology in the current fiscal year. We have 10 trademark registrations in the United States. Our key registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks include Intraware, SubscribeNet, The Way Digital Goods Move, and Control Your Technology. We also hold registrations and pending applications for a number of trademarks and service marks outside the United States. We are aware that certain other companies are using the name “Intraware” as a company name or as a trademark or service mark outside the United States. While we do not believe we have infringed any rights and we have received no notice of any claims of infringement from any of those companies, and we own registrations for the “Intraware” trademark in the United States and in other countries, we can make no assurance that these or other companies will not claim superior rights to “Intraware” or other marks used in our business. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy certain portions of our products or services, or reverse-engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We purchase licenses and will continue to purchase licenses for certain products integral to our services and products, including products which are integrated with our software code and used with our products to provide key functionality. We cannot be assured that these third party product licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to successfully integrate such third party products into our solutions. Employees As of April 15, 2005, we had 60 employees, including part-time employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. 