Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our business and before investing in our publicly-traded securities. Any of the risks we describe below or elsewhere in this report could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, inflation, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Risks Related to our BusinessOur ability to profitably manage, operate and grow operations is critical to our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations and is subject to significant uncertainties and limitations. If we attempt to make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits.Our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations is dependent upon our ability to successfully operate and grow operations such that they generate positive cash flow. Our ability to start or acquire new businesses is significantly constrained by our likely inability to obtain additional debt financing or to issue equity securities as a result of our current financial condition, as well as other uncertainties and risks. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully operate and grow operations or establish or acquire new business operations.If we pursue any new business opportunities, the process of establishing a new business or negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any new business or acquisition. We may not have, and may not be able to acquire or retain, personnel with experience in any new business we may establish or acquire. In addition, future acquisitions could result in contingent liabilities and/or impairment or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may not have access to financing on reasonable terms or at all, which may be necessary for us to continue to operate or to acquire new businesses.We do not currently have in place any agreements or commitments for short-term financing nor any agreements or commitments for additional long-term financing. In light of these factors and current market conditions, we may not be able to secure additional financing for existing or new operations or for any acquisition. Various legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and liquidity.In the course of our business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In addition, we have become subject to various securities and derivative lawsuits, and we may continue to be subject to additional litigation, in some cases on the basis of novel legal theories. The resolution of these legal matters or other legal matters could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 4Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities and to estimate fair values could further adversely affect our financial position.The Company uses significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) to estimate the fair value of its residual mortgage securities. Material differences between actual experience and the assumptions used to determine the fair value of these securities may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, one significant unobservable input used to determine the fair value of the Company's residual mortgage securities is the prepayment rate for the underlying mortgage loan collateral. If prepayment rates are faster (higher) that our estimates, the value of the securities may decline significantly.The cash flows from, and value of, our mortgage securities will further decline as the underlying mortgage loan collateral declines.There are many factors that affect the cash flows from, and value of, our mortgage securities, many of which are beyond our control. In general, the nature of mortgage securities is that as the underlying mortgage loan collateral is repaid or defaults, the cash flows from, and value of, our securities will decline. Risks Related to Our Operating SubsidiariesThe markets in which Corvisa operates are highly competitive and are subject to rapid technological change.The markets for contact center solutions and business phone systems are highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new features and services. Corvisa's current competitors include:•large legacy technology vendors that offer on-premise enterprise telephony and contact center systems;•legacy on-premise software companies, which are supplementing their traditional on-premise contact center systems with cloud-based offerings either through acquisition or in-house development;•vendors that historically provided other contact center services and technologies and expanded to offer cloud-based contact center software; and•smaller contact center service providers with specialized contact center software offerings. Corvisa's actual and potential competitors may enjoy competitive advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, greater financial or technical resources, established relationships with clients, more comprehensive product offerings, and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. If our competitors’ products, services or technologies become more accepted than our solution, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products or services are less expensive or more technologically capable than ours, our operating results could be adversely impacted. The market for cloud-based contact center solutions is relatively immature and could take longer to develop than we currently anticipate.The Company's decision to focus its resources primarily on the business of Corvisa was based largely on the Company's belief that Corvisa represents a better opportunity for Novation to build long-term shareholder value due to the size of Corvisa's target customer base and the potential size of the cloud-based contact center solutions industry as a whole. However, the market for cloud-based contact center solutions is not as mature as the market for legacy on-premise contact center systems. If the market for cloud-based contact center solutions fails to develop, develops more slowly than we anticipate or develops in a manner different than we expect, Corvisa's services could fail to achieve market acceptance, which in turn could materially and adversely affect Corvisa's business. Corvisa's success will be largely dependent on the widespread adoption of cloud-based contact center solutions as a replacement for legacy on-premise systems. If cloud-based contact center solutions do not achieve widespread adoption, or if there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based solutions due to a lack of market acceptance, enhanced offerings from on-premise providers, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, decreases in corporate spending or other factors, Corvisa's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Failure to develop and introduce new products or services could affect our ability to compete.To compete successfully, we must continuously design, develop, test and introduce new products and services to address new segments of the contact center solutions marketplace, to satisfy the changing communications needs of our existing customers, and to compete for new customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new products, services or features may require the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new products or services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent upon reaching mutually acceptable terms with third-party developers and on third-party developers meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new products or features may not be widely accepted by our customers and we may be forced to terminate those offerings and be required to impair the assets or technology used to develop or offer such products or features. If we are unable to design, develop, and sell 5new and enhanced contact center solutions and features that provide increasingly higher capabilities, performance and stability successfully, our business could be harmed.Our future growth depends upon the continued development and expansion of the internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of data by businesses and consumers.Achieving the anticipated benefits of cloud-based contact center solutions will depend in part on the continued development and expansion of the Internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of data by businesses and consumers. The use of the Internet for these purposes may not grow and expand at the rate we anticipate or may be restricted by actions by ISPs or network owners, future regulation, a lack of anticipated technology innovation or adoption or a lack of continued broadband penetration in the United States or elsewhere.Defects or disruptions in Corvisa's service could diminish demand for its service and impair its operations.Because Corvisa's service is complex and incorporates a variety of hardware, proprietary software and third-party software, Corvisa's service may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for Corvisa's customers and harm to its reputation and its business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Corvisa has from time to time found defects in its cloud-based contact center solutions and new errors may be detected in the future. Corvisa's operations depend on its ability to protect its network from interruption by damage from unauthorized entry, computer viruses or other events beyond our control. Corvisa may, in the future, be subject to denial or disruption of service, or DDOS, attacks by hackers intent on bringing down its services. Corvisa can provide no assurance that its backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols, DDOS mitigation and other procedures currently in place, or that may be in place in the future, will be adequate to prevent significant damage, system failure or data loss.Since Corvisa's customers use its cloud-based contact center solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems could hurt Corvisa's reputation and may damage its customers’ businesses. As a result, customers could elect to cancel their service or delay or withhold payment to Corvisa, resulting in the loss of future sales or claims against Corvisa, which could result in an increase in its provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. In addition, any negative publicity related to disruptions in Corvisa's service, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage its business by affecting Corvisa's ability to compete for new business with current and prospective clients.Failure to deliver high-quality professional services and technical support could adversely impact Corvisa's customer relationships, reputation, and financial results.Corvisa's customers depend on its customer support function to diagnose and resolve technical issues relating to Corvisa's solutions. Corvisa may be unable to respond quick enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect Corvisa's operating results. In addition, Corvisa's sales process is highly dependent on its business reputation and on positive recommendations from its existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that Corvisa does not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect its reputation, its ability to sell its cloud-based contact center solutions to existing and prospective customers, and its business, financial condition and results of operations.Rapid growth in the size or needs of Corvisa's customer base could strain its personnel resources and existing infrastructure.Significant, rapid growth in the number of users and transactions managed by Corvisa's solutions, the amount of data transferred, processed and stored by Corvisa, the number of locations where Corvisa's service is being accessed, and the volume of communications managed by Corvisa's solution could place a strain on its internal business systems and its services organization, including customer support and services, to serve Corvisa's growing customer base. Any failure of or delay in the efforts to appropriately scale these systems and support services could cause impaired system performance and reduced customer satisfaction. These issues could reduce the attractiveness of Corvisa's solution, resulting in decreased sales to new customers, lower renewal rates by existing customers and the issuance of service credits or refunds, which could hurt Corvisa's revenue growth and reputation. Even if Corvisa is able to upgrade its systems and expand its support functions, any such expansion will be expensive and complex, requiring management time and attention and increasing its operating expenses. Corvisa could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of its efforts to scale its existing infrastructure. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding information technology systems. If Corvisa cannot fully or effectively expand and improve its infrastructure and systems on a timely basis, or at all, these efforts may reduce revenue and margins and adversely impact Corvisa's results of operations.Corvisa may be unable to attract new customers or maintain its relationships with existing customers.Corvisa's customers generally do not have long-term contracts with Corvisa and may cancel their service at any time without penalty or early termination charges. Corvisa cannot accurately predict the rate of customer cancellations. Customers with 6subscription agreements generally have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their initial subscription period. In the event that these customers do renew their subscriptions, they may choose to renew for fewer users, shorter contract lengths, or for a less expensive license. Corvisa cannot predict the renewal rates for existing customers.Customer cancellations, as well as reductions in the number of users for whom a customer subscribes, each have a significant impact on Corvisa's results of operations, as does the cost Corvisa incurs in its efforts to retain our customers and encourage them to increase their number of users. Corvisa's cancellation rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with Corvisa's solutions, the value proposition of its services or its ability to otherwise meet their needs and expectations. The number of users for whom a customer subscribes may also decrease due to factors beyond Corvisa's control, including changes in a customers' business, financial constraints and the impact of a slowing economy. Because of these factors, Corvisa must acquire new customers, or acquire new users within its existing customer base in order to simply maintain its existing level of customers and revenues. If a significant number of customers terminate, reduce or fail to renew their subscriptions, Corvisa may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to increase the number of new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, Corvisa's sales process is highly dependent on its business reputation and on positive recommendations from its existing customers in order to market and sell its cloud-based contact center solution. If a key customer cancels or fails to renew its service, it could have a significant impact on Corvisa's revenues, reputation and ability to obtain new clients. Loss of key members of Corvisa's management team, sales team, or development team or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could disrupt Corvisa's business.Corvisa may periodically make adjustments to the organization or composition of its sales function in response to market opportunities, competitive threats, product introductions or enhancements and other internal and external considerations. These changes could result in periods of reduced productivity, which could negatively impact Corvisa's rate of revenue growth. In addition, any significant change to the compensation structure of Corvisa's sales organization may be disruptive and may affect its revenue growth.In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related services, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. Corvisa may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Corvisa has from time to time experienced, and expects to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If Corvisa fails to attract new personnel or fails to retain and motivate its current personnel, Corvia's business could be severely harmed.Corvisa depends on data centers operated by third parties, and any disruption in the operation of these facilities could adversely affect its business. Corvisa hosts its solution at third party data centers located in Lenexa, Kansas; Chicago, Illinois; and New York, New York. Any failure or downtime in one of these data center facilities could affect a significant percentage of Corvisa's clients. While Corvisa retains control of and access to its servers and all of the components of its network that are located in these external data centers, Corvisa does not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of Corvisa's third party data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with Corvisa on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Corvisa is unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of the data center operators closes or is unable to meet Corvisa's growing capacity needs, Corvisa may be required to transfer its servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, which may result in significant costs to Corvisa and service interruptions for its clients.Corvisa's third party data centers are also subject to various points of failure. Problems with cooling equipment, generators, uninterruptible power supply, routers, switches, or other equipment, whether or not within Corvisa's control, could result in service interruptions for Corvisa's clients as well as equipment damage. Corvisa's third party data centers are subject to disasters such as floods, fires, hurricanes, acts of terrorism, sabotage, break-ins, acts of vandalism and other events, which could cause service interruptions or temporary or permanent closure of these data center facilities. The destruction or impairment of any of these external data center facilities could result in significant disruptions in service or other performance problems, which could harm Corvisa's revenues, reputation and ability to obtain new clients. Corvisa depends on third party computer hardware and software, which may be difficult to replace. Corvisa relies on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer its service. This hardware and software may not continue to be available at reasonable prices or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that the software Corvisa licenses will continue to provide competitive features and functionality. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could significantly increase Corvisa's expenses and otherwise result in delays in the delivery of Corvisa's service until comparable technology is either developed by Corvisa, or, if available, is identified, obtained through purchase or license and integrated into Corvisa's solution. 7Corvisa may not be able to maintain the compatibility of its solution with the third party applications and platforms that its customers use in their businesses.The functionality and popularity of Corvisa's cloud-based contact center solution depends, in part, on Corvisa's ability to integrate its services with third-party software, including customer relationship management and workflow automation solutions. Providers of this third-party software may alter their products, restrict Corvisa's access to their products or alter the terms governing use of their products in an adverse manner. Such changes could limit or terminate Corvisa's ability to integrate with these third-party software solutions in conjunction with its services, which could negatively impact Corvisa's offerings and harm its business. If Corvisa fails to integrate its solution with new third-party back- end enterprise software used by its customers, Corvisa may not be able to offer the functionality that its customers need, which could negatively impact its ability to generate revenue and would adversely impact its business.If Corvisa's vendor supplied phones are not able to interoperate effectively with its own back-end servers and systems, its customers may not be able to use its system.Corvisa relies on Polycom, Inc. for the hard phones that it offers for sale to its customers. To the extent Polycom’s hard phones are or become subject to FCC regulation applicable to their design or operation, Corvisa relies on Polycom to provide hard phones that are in compliance with such regulations. If Polycom changes the design or operation of their phones, either on its own or in order to comply with government regulations, Corvisa will be required to undertake development and testing efforts to ensure that the new phones continue to be compatible with its solution. These efforts may require significant capital and employee resources, and we may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. If our vendor-supplied phones do not operate effectively with our solutions, our customers’ ability to use our services could be disrupted, which could result in cancellations of service and could adversely impact Corvisa's reputation and ability to obtain new clients.If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to confidential data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and we may incur significant legal and financial liabilities.Network and information systems and other technologies are critical to Corvisa’s business activities. Network and information systems-related events such as computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities could result in a degradation or disruption of our products and services, damage to our equipment or data, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We experience cyber-attacks against our network and information systems of varying degrees on a regular basis and, as a result, unauthorized parties could obtain access to our customers’ data. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, including information subject to data protection laws and regulations such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or personally identifiable information or national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection. The risk of these systems-related events and security breaches occurring has intensified in recent years, in part because we maintain certain information necessary to conduct our businesses in digital form stored on servers connected to the Internet.While we and our third-party software providers develop and maintain systems and processes to prevent these systems-related events and security breaches from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems and processes is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite such security measures, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access and security breaches will not occur in the future.If our security measures, or the security measures of our third-party software providers, are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to confidential data, we may be perceived as not being secure and and face significant legal and financial exposure, including lost revenues, increased expenditures on security measures, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines or criminal prosecution. Moreover, the damage to our reputation may cause customers to curtail or stop using our products and services. Moreover, despite contract provisions to protect us, to the extent our products and services are integrated with third-party developed applications, customers may look to us to support and provide warranties for those third-party developed applications, which may expose us to potential claims, liabilities and obligations for applications we did not develop or sell. The integrated nature of certain of our software applications may compound the consequences of any security breach.8Infringement on a third party's proprietary technology could disrupt Corvisa's business.The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Corvisa may, in the future, receive communications from third parties claiming that Corvisa has infringed their intellectual property rights, or may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their claimed proprietary rights. If Corvisa is found to infringe on the rights of a third party, Corvisa's technologies may be subject to injunction, or Corvisa may be required to pay damages, or both. The outcome of any claims or litigation is inherently uncertain. Any claims and lawsuits could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention, require Corvisa to change its technology, or change its business practices and/or pay monetary damages, or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements. Any adverse determination related to claims or other litigation could have a material adverse impact on Corvisa's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure to protect Corvisa's intellectual property rights could impair its ability to protect its proprietary technology and its brand.If Corvisa fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, Corvisa's competitors may gain access to its technology, and its business may be harmed. In addition, defending Corvisa's intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. Any of Corvisa's patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, Corvisa's existing patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide Corvisa with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and we may conclude that in at least some instances the benefits of protecting our intellectual property rights may be outweighed by the expense. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and divert management and development attention.Privacy concerns and laws, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of Corvisa's solutions.Regulation related to the delivery of services on the Internet is increasing, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information. In some cases foreign data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Union’s Data Protection Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive, also govern the processing of personal information. Such laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for Corvisa's solutions or restrict its ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact Corvisa's ability to offer its services and solutions in certain locations.In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Corvisa's customers may expect us to meet voluntary certification or other standards established by third parties, such as TRUSTe. If Corvisa is unable to meet these standards, it could adversely affect Corvisa's ability to provide its solutions to certain customers and could harm our business.The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of Corvisa's service and reduce overall demand for it, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance. Industry-specific regulation is evolving and unfavorable industry-specific laws, regulations, or interpretive positions could harm Corvisa's business.Corvisa's customers and potential customers do business in a wide variety of industries. Regulators in certain industries have adopted and may in the future adopt regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of cloud computing and other outsourced services. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, industry-specific laws, regulations and interpretive positions may limit customers’ use and adoption of Corvisa's services and reduce overall demand for its services. In addition, an inability to satisfy the standards of certain voluntary third-party certification bodies that Corvisa's customers may expect, such as an attestation of compliance with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards, may have an adverse impact on Corvisa's business. If in the future Corvisa is unable to achieve or maintain these industry-specific certifications or other requirements or standards relevant to its customers, it may harm Corvisa's business.In some cases, industry-specific laws, regulations or interpretive positions may also apply directly to Corvisa as a service provider. Any failure or perceived failure by Corvisa to comply with such requirements could have an adverse impact on its business. Industry-specific regulation may subject Corvisa to health and safety, environmental and other areas of regulation administered by the FCC or other federal or state regulatory agencies, and such regulation may adversely affect Corvisa’s business.9Corvisa's products and services must comply with industry standards, FCC regulations, state, local, country-specific and international regulations.Since the telecommunications aspects of Corvisa's business are regulated by the FCC, Corvisa is subject to existing or potential FCC regulations relating to privacy, disability access, porting of numbers, Universal Service Fund (USF) contributions, emergency 911 calling rules, and other requirements. If Corvisa does not comply with FCC rules and regulations, it could be subject to FCC enforcement actions, fines, loss of licenses and possibly restrictions on Corvisa's ability to operate or offer certain of its services. Any enforcement action by the FCC, which may be a public process, could hurt Corvisa's reputation in the industry, impair Corvisa's ability to sell its services to clients and harm its business and results of operations. Among the FCC's regulations with which we must comply (in whole or in part) are:•the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA, which requires covered entities to maintain the capability to assist law enforcement in undertaking electronic surveillance;•the USF, which requires that we pay to the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) a percentage of our assessable telecommunications revenues to support certain federal programs;•payment of annual FCC regulatory fees based on our interstate and international revenues;•rules pertaining to access to our services by people with disabilities and contributions to the Telecommunications Relay Services fund; and•FCC rules regarding Customer Proprietary Network Information, or CPNI, which prohibit us from using such information without client approval, subject to certain exceptions.Changes to existing FCC regulations or rules, lawful forbearance by the FCC from enforcing certain of its rules and regulations, and new FCC regulatory policies in areas such as net neutrality, intercarrier compensation, and interconnection may adversely affect Corvisa’s business. Corvisa resells the telecommunications services of third party carriers that are subject to, and may be adversely affected by the FCC’s regulation of their operations. Any such effects of FCC regulation on third party carriers may adversely affect Corvisa’s business. Intrastate telecommunications aspects of Corvisa’s business in certain states are subject to state regulation, including individual state USF payment requirements based on our intrastate telecommunications revenue. Changes to existing state regulations or rules applicable to Corvisa may adversely affect Corvisa’s business.Reform of federal and state USF programs could increase the cost of Corvisa's service to its customers.The FCC and a number of states are considering reform or other modifications to USF programs. Should the FCC or certain states adopt new contribution mechanisms or otherwise modify contribution obligations that increase Corvisa's contribution burden, Corvisa will either need to raise the amount it currently collects from its customers to cover this obligationor absorb the costs, which would reduce Corvisa's profit margins. States can require Corvisa to contribute to state USF programs based on Corvisa's intrastate telecommunications revenue in a given state. A number of states already require Corvisa to contribute, while others are actively considering extending their programs to include the telecommunications services Corvisa provides. Corvisa currently passes-through USF contributions to its customers, which may result in Corvisa's services becoming less competitive as compared to those provided by others.We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anticorruption laws, and our failure tocomply therewith could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on ourbusiness.As we aim to expand our business into new markets, we are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or other benefits. Although we strive to ensure that we, our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, there can be no assurance that we will be successful or protected from potentially liability for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. In the future, we may operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential anticorruption violations. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures. Any investigation of potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse effect on our business.The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (“Bribery Act”) reformed UK law with respect to bribery and corruption. As well as containing provisions concerning bribery of public officials, the Bribery Act also includes a criminal offense of preventing bribery by relevant commercial organizations. This offense applies when any person associated with an organization offers or accepts bribery anywhere in the world intending to obtain or retain a business advantage for the organization or in the conduct of business. The Bribery Act has wide ranging implications in particular for business in the UK, where we aim to expand, and it also has a wide-ranging extra-territorial effect. The Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly addresses commercial bribery in addition to the bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably facilitation payments that are permitted by the FCPA. Under the Bribery Act, it is a defense to the accusation of failure to prevent bribery for a commercial organization to show that it had in place adequate procedures designed to prevent such acts. As with the FCPA, if we are not in compliance with the Bribery Act as well as similar laws in the UK or elsewhere that are applicable to our business, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and adverse reputational harm.10Legal proceedings against our operating subsidiaries could adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of its business, Corvisa may become subject to legal proceedings and claims and could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs that would have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to our Legacy BusinessWe may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could further harm our liquidity.When we sold mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we made customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower, broker, or employee fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. We have received various repurchase demands as performance of subprime mortgage loans has deteriorated. A majority of repurchase requests have been denied, otherwise a negotiated purchase price adjustment was agreed upon with the purchaser. Enforcement of repurchase obligations against us would further harm our liquidity. Risks Related to our Capital Stock There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to be traded in an active market.Our common stock is currently quoted by the OTC Markets' Group inter-dealer quotation service as an OTCQB security. Trading of securities on this quotation service is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on exchanges, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase our stock will find that the liquidity or transferability of the stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our stock. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and the ability of an investor to transfer their shares of our common stock may be limited. We are not likely to pay dividends to our common shareholders in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. Under the restrictions of our senior notes, no dividends can be paid on our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our capital stock can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our capital stock include:•actual or perceived changes in our ability to continue as a going concern;•actual or anticipated changes in the delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans, in general, and specifically on the loans we invest in through our mortgage securities;•actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and cash flow;•general market and economic conditions, including the operations and stock performance of other industry participants;•the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions;•the activities of investors who engage in short sales of our common stock;•actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;•sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders;•additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and•actions by institutional shareholders. Our charter permits us to issue additional equity without shareholder approval, which could materially adversely affect our current shareholders.Our charter permits our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to:•authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without shareholder approval, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over our outstanding common stock with respect to voting;11•classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares; and•issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock in exchange for outstanding securities, with the consent of the holders of those securities. Other Risks Related to our BusinessOur ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could be severely limited in the event of certain transfers of our voting securities.We currently have recorded a significant deferred tax asset, before valuation allowance, almost all of which relates to certain net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in-losses. While we believe that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to utilize such losses in the future, the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could provide significant future tax savings to us if we are able to fully utilize such losses. However, our ability to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted or eliminated due to a future “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change could occur that would severely limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses, which may result in higher taxable income for us (and a significantly higher tax cost as compared to the situation where these tax benefits are preserved). There can be no assurance that the Company will earn any post-closing consideration under the terms of the StreetLinks sale.On April 16, 2014, the Company, and the minority owners of StreetLinks, sold StreetLinks LLC to Assurant Services, LLC and Assurant, Inc. A portion of the total sales price of StreetLinks was in the form of an earn-out of up to $12 million dependent on the total revenue of StreetLinks in fiscal 2015 and 2016 (the “Earn-Out”), and subject to adjustment for working capital and the other terms and conditions set forth in the definitive agreement.Under the Earn-Out, if (a) the total revenue of StreetLinks is $184 million or more for calendar year 2015, then Assurant will pay to all the sellers of StreetLinks an aggregate of $12 million (subject to reduction for certain earned bonus payments to StreetLinks employees); but if not, then (b) if the total revenue of StreetLinks is greater than $167.455 million for the calendar year 2016, Assurant will pay to all the seller’s up to an aggregate of $12 million (subject to reduction for certain earned bonus payments to StreetLinks employees), based on a linear scale where full payment of the $12 million would occur at total revenue of $184 million. At the time of the sale, the Company owned 88% of StreetLinks.There can be no assurance that the Company will receive any payment under the Earn-Out. Assurant has agreed to act in good faith in conducting the business of StreetLinks and to keep separate records, but generally Novation does not control how Assurant may operate the business of StreetLinks.Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing the senior notes we issued on March 22, 2011 (the “Senior Notes”) contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations, capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Without the prior consent of the holders of our Senior Notes, the terms of our Senior Notes and the related indentures restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur indebtedness;•create certain liens;•make payments from our subsidiaries to us;•make payments to our shareholders;•acquire our outstanding shares, or the shares of our subsidiaries;•make payments on debt securities pari passu or junior to the Senior Notes; and•merge, consolidate, transfer and/or sell substantially all of our assets.There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive the consent of the persons holding the Senior Notes should we have a need to take one of the restricted actions, which such limitation may hinder our ability to operate or grow our business in the future. The interest rate on our Senior Notes will increase.The Senior Notes accrue interest at a rate of 1% until the earlier of (a) the completion of an equity offering that results in proceeds of $40 million or more or (b) January 1, 2016. Thereafter, the Senior Notes will accrue interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 3.5%. The aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes is $85.9 million. The three-month LIBOR rate is at a historically low level and may increase in the future. Without accounting for increases in LIBOR, the increase in the applicable interest rate on the Senior Notes from 1% to 3.5% will negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.12Some provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law and our current Rights Plan may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices.Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law, and our current Rights Plan could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance notice procedures. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. Finally, we have a Rights Plan to protect our net operating loss carryforwards by preventing any shareholder from becoming a 5% shareholder, which may constitute a change in control of the Company. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, asset impairment, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by management could significantly change our reported results.The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and proposed amendments thereto could cause our compensation costs to increase, adversely affecting our results and cash flows. The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions that could materially impact the future healthcare costs of the Company. The legislation will continue to become effective through a phased approach that will not conclude until 2018, thus while the ultimate impact of the new legislation remains uncertain, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our compensation costs. In addition, implementing the requirements of and maintaining compliance with the new legislation and maintaining compliance therewith could significantly increase our administrative costs. Significant increases in either compensation or administrative costs could adversely affect our results and cash flows. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business.We are heavily dependent upon certain key personnel and the loss of service of any of these senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the Company's ability to retain these key executives. The loss of any of these senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional qualified senior management personnel.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.