Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- Cautionary Statements Certain statements made in Item 1 "Business", Item 1A., "Risk Factors", Item 3, "Legal Proceeding", Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Liquidity and Capital Resources", and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations 6 concerning future events and results. Such forward-looking statements, including those concerning the Company's expectations, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control, that may cause the Company's actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other important factors, include: o The Company's continued ability to obtain parts and components from its principal suppliers on a timely basis. The Company's distribution services business is dependent upon the availability of parts, components and supplies from its suppliers. API does not have any long-term agreements or commitments from OEM's or other suppliers from whom it generally purchases parts, and is dependent upon these manufacturers for access to parts for resale. In addition, some OEM's, in an effort to find additional sources of income, are attempting to distribute directly to the customer and by-pass the Company as a distribution channel. A disruption in the Company's ability to obtain parts, components and supplies, for any reason, and without the ability to find alternative sources, would have an adverse impact on the Company's business. o Depressed domestic and international market and economic conditions, especially those currently facing the aviation industry as a whole. The Company is dependent upon the level of activity in the aviation industry, including commercial and recreational flying, and flight training schools. Economic conditions in the aviation industry, as well as any downturn in economic conditions in general, and increases in fuel prices specifically, will have an adverse impact on the Company's future results. o The impact of changes in fuel and other freight related costs. Fuel is a significant cost in the aviation industry and increases in the cost of fuel or lack of availability of fuel could have an adverse impact on overall flight activity levels, and the Company's business. o Relationships with its customers. An inability to maintain good relationships with its customers, or the inability to expand by establishing relationships with new customers, could have an adverse impact on the Company. o The ability of the Company's customers to meet their financial obligations to the Company. The inability of the Company's customers to meet their obligations to the Company, or to meet their general financial obligations and face financial difficulty, would adversely impact the ability of the Company to collect on its receivables and generate future sales. o The ability to obtain and service supply chain management contracts. Supply chain management contracts have a long lead-time and require extensive effort and focus to obtain. An inability to obtain such contracts, or to service the customer appropriately, for any reason, would have an adverse impact on the Company's future results. o Changes in regulations or accounting standards. The Company is subject to regulations (including income tax laws) and accounting standards that could change in the future, and such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company's reported results. o The ability to consummate suitable acquisitions and expand. An inability to expand through acquisitions or through other means of growth, including internationally, may have an adverse impact on the Company. o The loss of the Company's facilities and distribution hub. The Company's distribution hub is located in Memphis and substantially all of its inventory is stored in contiguous warehouse space. Losing access or use of these facilities, through security concerns, natural disasters or damage to the buildings, would interrupt the Company's business and destroy or prevent the Company from accessing its inventory, which could significantly affect its business and operating results. o The significant failure of computer systems or networks that disrupt business or operations. The Company's computer systems, internal and external networks, and suppliers are crucial to service customers and manage operations. Significant disruptions or malfunctions of its computer systems or networks could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company is in the late stages of installing a new suite of enterprise resource planning software using internal resources and consultants for implementation. Failure to achieve effective implementation could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Failure of implementation to achieve anticipated results could have a material adverse effect on sales, business operations and results of operations. 7 o The effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will result in additional expenses. Financial and management resources needed for the Company and its auditors to assess internal control over financial reporting to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations are expected to be significant, and our efforts to comply will result in additional expenses. These expenses may have an adverse impact on our business results. The factors noted above are not all inclusive. All of the factors should be considered carefully when reviewing the Company's current results and forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or cautionary factors except as required by law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- None. 