Risk Factors. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions at the current rate could be materially adversely affected by various risks and uncertainties, including the conditions below. These risk factors may have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual operating and financial results and could cause such results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should not consider this list exhaustive. New risk factors emerge periodically, and we cannot assure you that the factors described below list all material risks to us at any later time. The current financial and economic crisis could adversely affect our business. Although we believe we are seeing an easing of the global economic and financial crisis that has severely curbed liquidity in the credit and real estate financing markets during recent periods, the full magnitude, effects and duration of the crisis cannot be predicted. To date, its effects on our business have been somewhat limited, primarily in that it has been generally more difficult to obtain financing for the sale-leaseback transactions we enter into on behalf of our managed funds and for refinancing of maturing debt. In addition, a number of tenants, particularly in the portfolios of the CPA® REITs, have experienced increased levels of financial distress, with several having filed for bankruptcy protection. Depending on how long and how severe this crisis is, we could in the future experience a number of additional effects on our business, including higher levels of default in the payment of rent by our tenants, additional bankruptcies and impairments in the value of our property investments, as well as difficulties in refinancing existing loans as they come due. Any of these conditions may negatively affect our earnings, as well as our cash flow and, consequently, our ability to sustain the payment of dividends at current levels. Our managed funds may also be adversely affected by these conditions, and their earnings or cash flow may also be adversely affected by other events, such as increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies in which they receive rent, as well as the need to expend cash to fund increased redemptions. Additionally, the ability of CPA®:17 – Global to make new investments will be affected by the availability of financing as well as its ability to raise new funds. Decreases in the value of the assets held by the CPA® REITs will affect the asset management revenues payable to us, as well as the value of the stock we hold in the CPA® REITs, and decreases in these funds’ earnings or ability to pay distributions may also affect their ability to make the payments due to us, as well as our income and cash flow from CPA® REIT distribution payments. Earnings from our investment management operations are subject to volatility. Growth in revenue from our investment management operations is dependent in large part on future capital raising in existing or future managed entities, as well as on our ability to make investments that meet the investment criteria of these entities, both of which are subject to uncertainty, including with respect to capital market and real estate market conditions. This uncertainty creates volatility in our earnings because of the resulting fluctuation in transaction-based revenue. Asset management revenue may be affected by factors that include not only our ability to increase the CPA® REITs’ portfolio of properties under management, but also changes in valuation of those properties, as well as sales of CPA® REIT properties. In addition, revenue from our investment management operations, including our ability to earn performance revenue, as well as the value of our holdings of CPA® REIT interests and dividend income from those interests, may be significantly affected by the results of operations of the CPA® REITs. Each of the CPA® REITs has invested substantially all of its assets (other than short-term investments) in triple-net leased properties substantially similar to those we hold, and consequently the results of operations of, and cash available for distribution by, each of the CPA® REITs, is likely to be substantially affected by the same market conditions, and subject to the same risk factors, as the properties we own. Four of the sixteen CPA® funds temporarily reduced the rate of distributions to their investors as a result of adverse developments involving tenants. W. P. Carey 2009 10-K — 12 Table of Contents Each of the CPA® REITs we currently manage may incur significant debt. This significant debt load could restrict their ability to pay revenue owed to us when due, due to either liquidity problems or restrictive covenants contained in their borrowing agreements. In addition, the revenue payable under each of our current investment advisory agreements is subject to a variable annual cap based on a formula tied to the assets and income of that CPA® REIT. This cap may limit the growth of our management revenue. Furthermore, our ability to earn revenue related to the disposition of properties is primarily tied to providing liquidity events for CPA® REIT investors. Our ability to provide that liquidity, and to do so under circumstances that will satisfy the applicable subordination requirements noted above in Item 1, Business — Other Revenue, will depend on market conditions at the relevant time, which may vary considerably over a period of years. In any case, liquidity events typically occur several years apart, and income from our investment management operations is likely to be significantly higher in those years in which such events occur. The inability of a tenant in a single tenant property to pay rent will reduce our revenues. Most of our properties are occupied by a single tenant and, therefore, the success of our investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants. Revenues from several of our tenants/guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our lease revenues. Our five largest tenants/guarantors represented approximately 33%, 31% and 29% of total lease revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Lease payment defaults by tenants negatively impact our net income and reduce the amounts available for distributions to shareholders. As our tenants generally may not have a recognized credit rating, they may have a higher risk of lease defaults than if our tenants had a recognized credit rating. In addition, the bankruptcy of a tenant could cause the loss of lease payments as well as an increase in the costs incurred to carry the property until it can be re-leased or sold. We have had tenants file for bankruptcy protection. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting the investment and re-leasing the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. A substantial amount of our leases will expire within the next three years, and we may have difficulty in re-leasing or selling our properties if tenants do not renew their leases. Within the next three years, approximately 40% of our leases are due to expire. If these leases are not renewed, or if the properties cannot be re-leased on terms that yield payments comparable to those currently being received, then our lease revenues could be substantially adversely affected. The terms of any new or renewed leases of these properties may depend on market conditions prevailing at the time of lease expiration. In addition, if properties are vacated by the current tenants, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to re-lease such properties. We may also seek to sell these properties, in which event we may incur losses, depending upon market conditions prevailing at the time of sale. Real estate investments generally lack liquidity compared to other financial assets, and this lack of liquidity will limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Some of our net leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular needs of the tenant. With these properties, we may be required to renovate the property or to make rent concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In addition, if we are forced to sell the property, we may have difficulty selling it to a party other than the tenant due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed. These and other limitations may affect our ability to re-lease or sell properties without adversely affecting returns to shareholders. We may recognize substantial impairment charges on our properties. Historically, we have incurred substantial impairment charges, which we are required to recognize whenever we sell a property for less than its carrying value or we determine that the property has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in its carrying value (or, for direct financing leases, that the unguaranteed residual value of the underlying property has declined). By their nature, the timing or extent of impairment charges are not predictable. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which may reduce our net income, although it will not necessarily affect our cash flow from operations. The revenue streams from the investment advisory agreements with the CPA® REITs are subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which we provide investment advisory services may generally be terminated by each CPA® REIT upon 60 days’ notice, with or without cause. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be terminated. A termination without cause may, however, entitle us to termination revenue, equal to 15% of the amount by which the net fair value of the relevant CPA® REIT’s assets exceeds the remaining amount necessary to provide investors with total distributions equal to their investment plus a preferred return. For CPA®:17 – Global, it has the right, but not the obligation, upon certain terminations to repurchase our interests in its operating partnership at fair market value. If such right is not exercised, we would remain as a limited partner of the operating partnership. Nonetheless, any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. W. P. Carey 2009 10-K — 13 Table of Contents Changes in investor preferences or market conditions could limit our ability to raise funds or make new investments. Substantially all of our and the CPA® REITs’ current investments, as well as the majority of the investments we expect to originate for the CPA® REITs in the near term, are investments in single-tenant commercial properties that are subject to triple-net leases. In addition, we have relied predominantly on raising funds from individual investors through the sale by participating selected dealers to their customers of publicly-registered, non-traded securities of the CPA® REITs. Although we have increased the number of broker dealers we use for fund raising, the majority of our fund raising efforts have been through one major selected dealer. If, as a result of changes in market receptivity to investments that are not readily liquid and involve high selected dealer fees, or for other reasons, this capital raising method were to become less available as a source of capital, our ability to raise funds for CPA® REIT programs, and consequently our ability to make investments on their behalf, could be adversely affected. While we are not limited to this particular method of raising funds for investment (and, among other things, the CPA® REITs may themselves be able to borrow additional funds to invest), our experience with other means of raising capital is limited. Also, many factors, including changes in tax laws or accounting rules, may make these types of investments less attractive to potential sellers and lessees, which could negatively affect our ability to increase the amount of assets of this type under management. Our use of debt to finance investments could adversely affect our cash flow. Most of our investments are made by borrowing a portion of the total investment and securing the loan with a mortgage on the property. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which in turn could cause the value of our portfolio, and revenues available for distribution to our shareholders, to be reduced. We generally borrow on a non- recourse basis to limit our exposure on any property to the amount of equity invested in the property. Some of our financing may also require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make balloon payments on debt will depend upon our ability either to refinance the obligation when due, invest additional equity in the property or to sell the related property. When the balloon payment is due, we may be unable to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available mortgage rates, our equity in the mortgaged properties, our financial condition, the operating history of the mortgaged properties and tax laws. A refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to shareholders. We face active competition. In raising funds for investment by the CPA® REITs, we face competition from other funds with similar investment objectives that seek to raise funds from investors through publicly registered, non-traded funds, publicly-traded funds and private funds. This competition could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions and to raise funds for future investments, which in turn could ultimately reduce, or limit the growth of, revenues from our investment management operations. As a result of the continued weakness in the credit and real estate financing markets, we believe there has been a recent decrease in the level of competition for the acquisition of office and industrial properties net leased to major corporations both domestically and internationally. Historically, however, we have faced active competition from many sources, including insurance companies, credit companies, pension funds, private individuals, financial institutions, finance companies and investment companies, among others. These institutions may accept greater risk or lower returns, allowing them to offer more attractive terms to prospective tenants. In addition, our evaluation of the acceptability of rates of return on behalf of the CPA® REITs is affected by such factors as the cost of raising capital, the amount of revenue we can earn and the performance hurdle rates of the relevant CPA® REITs. Thus, the effect of the cost of raising capital and the revenue we can earn may be to limit the amount of new investments we make on behalf of the CPA® REITs, which will in turn limit the growth of revenues from our investment management operations. Our leases may permit tenants to purchase a property at a predetermined price, which could limit our realization of any appreciation or result in a loss. In some circumstances, we grant tenants a right to repurchase the property they lease from us. The purchase price may be a fixed price or it may be based on a formula or the market value at the time of exercise. If a tenant exercises its right to purchase the property and the property’s market value has increased beyond that price, we could be limited in fully realizing the appreciation on that property. Additionally, if the price at which the tenant can purchase the property is less than our purchase price or carrying value (for example, where the purchase price is based on an appraised value), we may incur a loss. W. P. Carey 2009 10-K — 14 Table of Contents International investments involve additional risks. We have invested in and may continue to invest in properties located outside the U.S. These investments may be affected by factors particular to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. These investments may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the U.S., including: • Foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; • Changing governmental rules and policies; • Enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of property and laws relating to the ability of foreign entities to remove invested capital or profits earned from activities within the country to the United States; • Expropriation; • Legal systems under which the ability to enforce contractual rights and remedies may be more limited than would be the case under U.S. law; • The difficulty in conforming obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • Adverse market conditions caused by changes in national or local economic or political conditions; • Tax requirements vary by country and we may be subject to additional taxes as a result of our international investments; • Changes in relative interest rates; • Changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; • Changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; • Changes in land use and zoning laws; and • More stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws. In addition, the lack of available information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) could impair our ability to analyze transactions and may cause us to forego an investment opportunity. It may also impair our ability to receive timely and accurate financial information from tenants necessary to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies. Also, we may rely on third-party asset managers in international jurisdictions to monitor compliance with legal requirements and lending agreements with respect to properties we own or manage on behalf of the CPA® REITs. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may expose us or our operating subsidiaries to additional liabilities. We do not fully control the management of our properties. The tenants or managers of net lease properties are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of the properties. If a property is not adequately maintained in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease, we may incur expenses for deferred maintenance expenditures or other liabilities once the property becomes free of the lease. While our leases generally provide for recourse against the tenant in these instances, a bankrupt or financially troubled tenant may be more likely to defer maintenance and it may be more difficult to enforce remedies against such a tenant. In addition, to the extent tenants are unable to conduct their operation of the property on a financially successful basis, their ability to pay rent may be adversely affected. Although we endeavor to monitor, on an ongoing basis, compliance by tenants with their lease obligations and other factors that could affect the financial performance of our properties, such monitoring may not in all circumstances ascertain or forestall deterioration either in the condition of a property or the financial circumstances of a tenant. We are subject to possible liabilities relating to environmental matters. We own commercial properties and are subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws. These responsibilities and liabilities also exist for properties owned by the CPA® REITs and if they become liable for these costs, their ability to pay for our services could be materially affected. Some of these laws could impose the following on us: • Responsibility and liability for the cost of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our property, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants; • Liability for the costs of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of such substances; • Potential liability for common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs of environmental contaminants; and • Claims being made against us by the CPA® REITs for inadequate due diligence. Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances, or for third-party claims for damages, may be substantial. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances at any of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. While we attempt to mitigate identified environmental risks by contractually requiring tenants to acknowledge their responsibility for complying with environmental laws and to assume liability for environmental matters, circumstances may arise in which a tenant fails, or is unable, to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, environmental liabilities, or costs or operating limitations imposed on a tenant to comply with environmental laws, could affect its ability to make rental payments to us. Also, and although we endeavor to avoid doing so, we may be required, in connection with any future divestitures of property, to provide buyers with indemnification against potential environmental liabilities. W. P. Carey 2009 10-K — 15 Table of Contents Our portfolio growth is constrained by our obligations to offer property transactions to the CPA® REITs. Under our investment advisory agreements with the CPA® REITs, we are required to use our best efforts to present a continuing and suitable investment program to them. In recent years, new property investment opportunities have generally been made available by us to the CPA® REITs. While the allocation of new investments to the CPA® REITs fulfills our duty to present a continuing and suitable investment program and enhances the revenues from our investment management operations, it also restricts the potential growth of revenues from our real estate ownership and our ability to diversity our portfolio. A potential change in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of facilities less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services. Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. This situation is considered to be met if, among other things, the non-cancellable lease term is more than 75% of the useful life of the asset or if the present value of the minimum lease payments equals 90% or more of the leased property’s fair value. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant and the obligation does not appear on the tenant’s balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant’s balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. In response to concerns caused by a 2005 SEC study that the current model does not have sufficient transparency, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the International Accounting Standards Board conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting. In March 2009, the FASB issued a discussion paper providing its preliminary views that the scope of the proposed new standard should be based on the scope of the existing standards. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential customers. These changes may affect how the real estate leasing business is conducted both domestically and internationally. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This in turn could make it more difficult for us to enter leases on terms we find favorable. The value of our real estate is subject to fluctuation. We are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of real estate. While the revenues from our leases and those of the CPA® REITs are not directly dependent upon the value of the real estate owned, significant declines in real estate values could adversely affect us in many ways, including a decline in the residual values of properties at lease expiration; possible lease abandonments by tenants; a decline in the attractiveness of REIT investments that may impede our ability to raise new funds for investment by CPA® REITs and a decline in the attractiveness of triple-net lease transactions to potential sellers. We also face the risk that lease revenue will be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness we incur. General risks associated with the ownership of real estate include: • Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions, • Changes in the supply of or demand for similar or competing properties, • Changes in interest rates and operating expenses, • Competition for tenants, • Changes in market rental rates, • Inability to lease or sell properties upon termination of existing leases, • Renewal of leases at lower rental rates, • Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy, • Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate, • Uninsured property liability, property damage or casualty losses, • Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, and • Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. We depend on key personnel for our future success. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of these executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. W. P. Carey 2009 10-K — 16 Table of Contents Our governing documents and capital structure may discourage a takeover. Wm. Polk Carey, Chairman, is the beneficial owner of approximately 30% of our outstanding shares. The provisions of our Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement and the share ownership of Mr. Carey may discourage a tender offer for our shares or a hostile takeover, even though these may be attractive to shareholders. Proposed legislation may prevent us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may significantly increase our tax liability and may affect the market value of our shares. Members of the United States Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly traded partnership rules. If this or any similar legislation or regulation were to be enacted and to apply to us, we would incur a material increase in our tax liability and the market value of our shares could decline materially. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 