ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. Described below are certain risks and uncertainties that management has identified as material. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 7 Risks Related To Our Business The financial markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, will be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet growth, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, pricing and anticipated hedging activities. Simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. Since July 2007, credit markets have experienced difficult conditions, extraordinary volatility and rapidly widening credit spreads and, therefore, have provided significantly reduced availability of liquidity for many borrowers. Uncertainties in these markets present significant challenges, particularly for the financial services industry. Disruptions in the financial markets caused widening credit spreads resulting in markdowns and/or losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other market activities. We obtain most of our funding from core deposit relationships with our clients and invest those funds in loans to our clients or government-backed agency securities. Our investment portfolio contains no mortgage-backed securities invested in subprime or alt-A mortgages. Our activities in the national credit markets are limited to funding vehicles such as brokered certificates of deposit and subordinated debentures. We have seen the cost of brokered deposits decline slower than other money market rates due to demand by financial institutions, and the cost and availability of subordinated debentures has been severely and negatively impacted by this adverse environment. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, and which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected. In addition, further reductions in market liquidity may make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our Wealth Management business, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. During 2008, the significant declines in equity markets have negatively impacted assets under management. As a result, fee income earned from those assets has also decreased. If significant, further declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates and changes in credit spreads individually or in combination, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity both directly and indirectly by creating competition and other pressures such as employee retention issues. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 8 The Company depends on payments from Enterprise, including dividends and payments under service agreements and tax sharing agreements, for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends and the amount of payments that Enterprise may make to the Company under service and tax sharing agreements. See “Supervision and Regulation”. In the event Enterprise becomes unable to pay dividends to the Company or make payments under the service agreements or tax sharing agreements the Company may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends or other payments from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of investments in the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $0 outstanding on its $16.0 million line of credit. While the line of credit does not expire until April 2009, we do not have any current availability under the line due to our noncompliance with a certain covenant regarding classified loans as a percentage of bank equity and loan loss reserves. We may be unable to arrange for a holding company line of credit in 2009 given the uncertainties around bank industry performance. However, we believe our current level of cash at the holding company will be sufficient to meet all projected cash needs in 2009. We believe the level of liquid assets at Enterprise is sufficient to meet current and anticipated funding needs. In addition to amounts currently borrowed, at December 31, 2008, Enterprise could borrow an additional $164.3 million available from the FHLB of Des Moines under blanket loan pledges and an additional $310.5 million available from the Federal Reserve Bank under pledged loan agreements. Enterprise also has access to over $70.0 million in overnight federal funds lines from various correspondent banks. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information. We are subject to credit and collateral risk.There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The real estate downturn in our geographic markets has hurt our business because a majority of our loans are secured by real estate. If real estate prices continue to decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans will be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling real estate collateral will be further diminished and we would likely suffer losses on defaulted loans. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Missouri and Kansas. Over the past nine months, real estate values, particularly residential real estate values, have deteriorated in our markets. As a result, our 2008 charge-offs were significantly higher than historical levels. During 2008, we incurred $12.7 million of net-charge-offs, or 0.70% of average loans compared to $2.0 million, or 0.14%, of average loans for 2007. Various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. The loan loss allowance increased in 2008 due to changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, and identification of additional problem loans. We continue to monitor our loan loss allowance and may need to increase it if factors continue to deteriorate. In addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to strong loan growth, an increase in non-performing loans and adverse risk rating changes primarily in the residential builder portfolio, the provision for loan losses was $22.5 million for 2008 compared to $4.6 million for 2007. 9 If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill or other long-term intangible asset has been impaired, the Company must write down the asset by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. During 2008, we took an impairment charge of $9.2 million, pre-tax, with respect to our Millennium reporting unit. At December 31, 2008, the goodwill balance included in the consolidated balance sheet for the Millennium reporting unit was $3.1 million. It is possible that additional impairment at Millennium may occur in 2009. The Company’s 2008 analysis of goodwill at the Banking reporting unit indicated that no impairment existed at December 31, 2008. If current market conditions persist during 2009, in particular, if the EFSC common share price falls and consistently remains below book value per share, the Company may need to test for goodwill impairment at an interim date. Subsequent reviews of goodwill could result in additional impairment of goodwill during 2009. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. As of December 31, 2008, the Company did not carry a valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset balance of $15.7 million. Future facts and circumstances may require a valuation allowance. Charges to establish a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including Federal Home Loan banks, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate.The regional economic conditions in areas where we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas.We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the markets in which we operate. However, we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, and other local, regional and national financial services firms. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. 10 Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term client relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet client needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; and industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recent and possible acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.Acquiring other banks or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. We periodically evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. Although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The restrictions on executive compensation imposed by EESA and ARRA on all participants in TARP severely limit the amount and types of compensation we can pay our executive officers and key employees, including a complete prohibition on any severance or other compensation upon termination of employment, significant caps on bonuses, retention payments and executive compensation and a “clawback” requirement requiring the return of any bonus or incentive compensation based on earnings or other financial data that later turn out to be misstated. These restrictions may affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Shares Our share price can be volatile.Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace; significant acquisitions or business combinations or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors; or failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. General market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. An investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit.Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock by our board of directors.Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications and limitations determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights, which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of its authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. 12 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS Not applicable. 