Item 1A: Risk Factors In evaluating the Company and its business, the following factors should be given careful consideration, in addition to the information mentioned elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Factors Related to Real Estate Industry Segment. Our properties depend upon the Northern California and particularly the Sonoma County economy. All of our rental revenues come from two properties located in Northern California and more particularly Sonoma County. Events and conditions applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease the value of our properties. These events include: local oversupply or reduction in demand for office, industrial or other commercial space; inability to collect rent from tenants; vacancies or inability to rent spaces on favorable terms; inability to finance property development on favorable terms; increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, and real estate taxes; costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; changing sub-market demographics and property damage resulting from seismic activity. The geographical concentration of our properties may expose us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Sonoma County region could adversely impact our financial condition, results from operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy any debt service obligations. The economic environment in Sonoma County continues to improve over last year. As part of this improvement, we anticipate the commercial, industrial and office markets in Sonoma County will also experience positive effects from this recovery. There is no assurance, however, that the market will significantly improve in the near future. Increasing utility costs and power outages in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California continues to address issues related to the supply of electricity and natural gas. Since June 2000, shortages of electricity have resulted in increased costs for consumers and certain interruptions in service. Increased consumer costs and consumer perception that the State is not able to effectively manage its energy needs may reduce demand for leased space in California office and industrial properties. A significant reduction in demand for industrial space would adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy any debt service obligations. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry commercial general liability, property, extended coverage and rental loss insurance covering all of our properties. Management believes the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry earthquake coverage. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsurable losses such as pollution, contamination, asbestos and seepage. Some of our policies are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties were subject to any recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the properties were irreparable. -8- Downturns in tenants’ businesses may reduce our cash flow. For the year ended June 30, 2006, we derived 100% of our revenue from rental income and tenant reimbursements with additional investment income from the sale of MetroPCS stock. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which may weaken its financial condition and result in its failure to make timely rental payments. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Even so, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Any losses resulting from the bankruptcy of any of our tenants could adversely impact our financial condition, results from operations, cash flow, the quoted per share trading price of our common stock and the ability to satisfy any debt service obligations. Although we have not experienced material losses from tenant bankruptcies, tenants could file for bankruptcy protection in the future. We may be unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. As of June 30, 2006, not taking into account month-to-month leases, leases representing approximately 33% and 41% of the square footage of our properties will expire in 2007 and 2008, respectively. If leases expire with above market rental rates we may be forced to renew or re-lease such expiring leases at rates below the existing rental rates. We cannot give any assurance that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above the current rental rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, existing tenants do not renew their leases, or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy any debt service obligations would be adversely affected. Our real estate holdings could subject us to potential environmental liability. We could be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of any hazardous or toxic substances located on or in our properties. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to remediate such substances properly, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Other federal and state laws require the removal of damaged material containing asbestos in the event of remodeling or renovation. We rely on three major tenants for a significant portion of our rental revenues. Benziger Family Winery accounted for 14%, 16% and 18% of the Company’s rental revenues for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, Benziger Family Winery accounted for 23% and 28% of the accounts receivable balance as of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The lease for this tenant expires in fiscal year 2008. The loss of Benziger Family Winery as a tenant would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, all rental amounts owing by Benziger Family Winery were payable within the normal billing cycle and were not past due. -9- Manzana Products Company, Inc. accounted for 10% and 11% of the Company’s rental revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and less than 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. In addition, Manzana Products Company, Inc., accounted for less than 1% of the accounts receivable balance as of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. The loss of Manzana Products Company, Inc. as a tenant would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, all rental amounts owing by Manzana Products Company, Inc. were payable within the normal billing cycle and were not past due. Vinovation, Inc. accounted for 10% of the Company’s rental revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and less than 10% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005 and 2004. In addition, Vinovation, Inc, accounted for 22% and 9% of the accounts receivable balance as of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of Vinovation, Inc. as a tenant would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, all rental amounts owing by Vinovation, Inc. were payable within the normal billing cycle and were not past due. Greg & Greg accounted for 13% and 12% of the accounts receivable balance as of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Redwood Hill Farms accounted for 17% of the accounts receivable balance as of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Compliance with new regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting will result in additional costs. We are a small company with a small number of employees. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. While we maintain a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we are now or will be in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties, including fines or other sanctions or litigation. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws and regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines or cause the value of our common stock to decline. Our continuing preparation for and implementation of various corporate governance reforms and enhanced disclosure laws and regulations adopted in recent years requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We, like other public companies, are preparing for new accounting disclosures required by laws and regulations adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In particular, we will be preparing to provide, if required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, an annual report on our internal control over financial reporting and auditors’ attestation with respect to our report required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully comply with these new laws and regulations. Any failure to timely prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws and regulations could significantly harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Factors Related to Investments Our investment in MetroPCS Communications, Inc., is subject to several risks, including lack of liquidity. The Company also holds an investment in MetroPCS Communications, Inc., a privately held telecommunications company. The wireless industry is unsettled, highly competitive and is marked by rapidly developing and expanding technologies, which present some risks. Even though management believes that the investment in MetroPCS Communications represents an attractive opportunity for the Company and will ultimately provide a positive return to the Company, there is no assurance that this will occur. Similarly, there is no certainty that MetroPCS will ever become a public company or that a market will develop in the future for MetroPCS securities, and the Company may not be able to achieve liquidity for its investment as it holds a very small minority shareholder interest in MetroPCS. See “Business - Other Assets” and Note 1 Investments to the financial statements appearing elsewhere herein for information concerning our investment in MetroPCS Communications. -10- Our investment in MetroPCS Communications is our only securities investment other than short-term investments pursuant to our cash management policies. Shareholders in the Company do not have the benefits that would result from a diversified portfolio of investments. Even though management believes that the investment in MetroPCS Communications will ultimately provide a positive return to the Company, the loss of our investment in MetroPCS Communications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile and our stock is thinly traded, sometimes resulting in a lack of liquidity. Our stock price has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. For example, during fiscal 2006, the high and low sales prices for our common stock were $17.00 and $5.00, respectively. Since becoming a public company, our stock price has fluctuated in conjunction with the stock markets generally and sometimes on matters more specific to the Company. Our stock price may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to factors specific to the Company or in response to general market conditions. During part of fiscal 2006, our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. The common stock stopped trading on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market in August 2005, and is currently trading in the over-the-counter “pink sheets,” which generally is a less liquid market. Continued trading on the pink sheets could reduce the liquidity of our common stock, cause certain investors not to trade in our common stock and result in a lower stock price. The daily trading volume in the common stock is typically very low. As a result, sales of a significant number of shares into the public markets, particularly in light of our relatively small trading volume, may negatively affect our stock price, and there can be no assurance than an investor will be able to purchase or sell shares of our common stock at the times they desire or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 