Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. Segment and Geographic Financial Information For financial information about our two reportable segments, Office Properties and Industrial Properties, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. All of our business is conducted in the United States, primarily in Southern California. For information about our revenues and long-lived assets and other financial information, see our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we, through the Operating Partnership, KSLLC and Kilroy Realty TRS, Inc., employed 139 people. We believe that relations with our employees are good. Government Regulations Relating to the Environment Many laws and governmental regulations relating to the environment are applicable to our Properties and changes in these laws and regulations, or their interpretation by agencies and the courts, occur frequently and may adversely affect us. Existing conditions at some of our Properties. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of our Properties. We generally obtain these assessments prior to the acquisition of a property and may later update them as required for subsequent financing of the property or as requested by a tenant. Site assessments are generally performed to ASTM standards then existing for Phase I site assessments, and typically include a historical review, a public records review, a visual inspection of the surveyed site, and the issuance of a written report. These assessments do not generally include any soil samplings or subsurface investigations. Depending on the age of the property, the Phase I may have included an assessment of asbestos-containing materials. For properties where asbestos-containing materials were identified or suspected, an operations and maintenance plan was generally prepared and implemented. Historical operations at or near some of the Properties, including the operation of underground storage tanks, may have caused soil or groundwater contamination. The prior owners of the affected properties conducted remediation of known contamination in the soils on the properties and we do not believe that further clean-up of the soils is required. We are not aware of any such condition, liability or concern by any other means that would give rise to material environmental liability. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns; there may be material environmental conditions, 6 Table of Contents liabilities or compliance concerns that arose at a property after the review was completed; future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability; and current environmental conditions at our properties may be affected in the future by tenants, third parties or the condition of land or operations near our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks. We cannot be certain that costs of future environmental compliance will not affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Use of hazardous materials by some of our tenants. Some of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes on our Properties as part of their routine operations. Environmental laws and regulations may subject these tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from such activities. We generally require our tenants, in their leases, to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify us for any related liabilities. As of December 31, 2005, less than 5% of our tenants, representing less than 10% of the aggregate square footage of our Properties, handled hazardous substances and/or wastes on our Properties as part of their routine operations. These tenants are primarily involved in the life sciences and the light industrial and warehouse business. We are not aware of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of our Properties, and management does not believe that on-going activities by our tenants will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Costs related to government regulation and private litigation over environmental matters. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable for the costs of removal, remediation or disposal of certain hazardous or toxic substances present or released on our Properties. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we are responsible for, or even knew of, the presence or release of the hazardous materials. Government investigations and remediation actions may have substantial costs and the presence or release of hazardous substances on a property could result in governmental cleanup actions, personal injury or similar claims by private plaintiffs. Potential environmental liabilities may exceed our environmental insurance coverage limits. We carry what our management believes to be sufficient environmental insurance to cover any potential liability for soil and groundwater contamination and the presence of asbestos-containing materials at the affected sites identified in the environmental site assessments. The policy is subject to various terms, conditions, qualifications and limitations of coverage. Therefore, management cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, quoted trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This document contains certain forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”)). These statements relate to, among other things, our future results of operations, cash available for distribution, property acquisitions, level of future property dispositions, ability to timely lease or re-lease space at current or anticipated rents, ability to complete current and future development or redevelopment projects within budget and on schedule, sources of growth, planned development and expansion of owned or leased property, capital requirements, compliance with contractual obligations and federal, state and local regulations, conditions of properties, environmental findings and general business, industry and economic conditions applicable to us. These statements are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date this annual report was filed with the SEC. The following factors, as well as the factors discussed in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors That May Influence Future Results of Operations,” and other information contained in this report, should be considered in evaluating the Company and our business. 7 Table of Contents General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States and in other countries, declining demand for leased office or industrial properties or rising interest rates, fluctuations in availability and cost of construction materials and labor resulting from the effects of recent natural disasters and increased worldwide demand, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases at our Properties, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, quoted trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our operations depend upon the Southern California economy. As of December 31, 2005, 94.4% of the aggregate square footage of our stabilized portfolio and 96.4% of our annualized base rent, excluding expense reimbursements and rental abatements, were attributable to properties located in Southern California. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, all of our in-process and future development projects were located in Southern California. Our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders depends on our ability to generate FFO, in excess of scheduled principal payments on debt, payments on the preferred limited partnership units issued by the Operating Partnership, distributions to preferred stockholders and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease funds available for distribution and the value of our Properties. These events include: · local oversupply or reduction in demand for office, industrial or other commercial space; · inability to collect rent from tenants; · vacancies or inability to rent spaces on favorable terms or at all; · inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; · increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, and real estate taxes; · costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; · the relative liquidity of real estate investments; · changing submarket demographics; and · property damage resulting from seismic activity or other natural disasters. The geographical concentration of the Properties may expose us to greater economic risks than if we owned properties in several geographic regions. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Southern California region could adversely impact our financial condition, results from operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend on significant tenants. As of December 31, 2005, our ten largest office tenants represented approximately 26.2% of total annual base rental revenues and our ten largest industrial tenants represented approximately 7.3% of total annual base rental revenues. Of this amount, our largest tenant, The Boeing Company (“Boeing”), leased an aggregate of approximately 777,000 rentable square feet of office space under five separate leases, representing 4.9% of our total annual base rental revenues at December 31, 2005. See further discussion on the composition of our tenants by industry and our largest tenants under “Item 1. Business—Significant Tenants” and “Item 2. Properties—Tenant Information” respectively. As of December 31, 2005, our sixth largest office tenant, Intuit, was leasing an aggregate of approximately 278,700 rentable square feet of office space under four separate leases. In March 2005, we executed a new ten-year lease agreement with Intuit, resulting in the leasing of approximately 466,000 rentable square feet of additional space, comprising the entirety of a four building office complex that we are developing in San Diego 8 Table of Contents County for Intuit. Upon commencement of the term of that new lease, anticipated to occur in late 2007, Intuit is projected to become our largest tenant based on its percentage of our total annual base rental revenues. Although we have been able to mitigate the impact of past significant tenant defaults on our financial condition, revenues and results of operations, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if any of our significant tenants fails to renew its lease, renews its lease(s) on terms less favorable to us or becomes bankrupt or insolvent or otherwise unable to satisfy its lease obligations. Downturn in tenants’ businesses may reduce our cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 99.6% of our revenues from continuing operations from rental income and tenant reimbursements. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which may weaken its financial condition and result in its failure to make timely rental payments. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our Properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might permit the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Therefore, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Any losses resulting from the bankruptcy of any of our existing tenants could adversely impact our financial condition, results from operations, cash flows, the quoted trading prices of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders. We may be unable to renew leases or re-let available space. As of December 31, 2005, we had office and industrial space available for lease representing approximately 5.0% of the total square footage of our Properties. In addition, leases representing approximately 8.3% and 16.4% of the leased square footage of our Properties are scheduled to expire in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Above market rental rates on some of the Properties may force us to renew or re-lease expiring leases at rates below current lease rates. Management believes that the average rental rates for all of our Properties, including leases scheduled to expire in 2006, are slightly below the current average quoted market rates, although individual Properties within any particular submarket presently may be leased above or below the rental rates within that submarket. We cannot give any assurance that leases will be renewed or that available space will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above the current rental rates. If the average rental rates for the Properties decrease or existing tenants do not renew their leases, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading prices of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and pay distributions to our stockholders would be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental regulations that may affect the development, redevelopment and use of our Properties. In addition to the governmental regulations relating to the environment described in “Item 1—Government Regulations Relating to the Environment” above, certain other governmental regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, quoted trading prices of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to stockholders. Costs of compliance with governmental regulations. Our Properties are subject to regulation under other laws, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”) under which all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons, and state and local laws addressing earthquake, fire and life safety requirements. Although we believe that our Properties substantially comply with present requirements under applicable governmental regulations, none of the Properties have been audited or investigated for compliance by any regulatory agency. If we were not in compliance with material provisions of the ADA or other regulations affecting our Properties, we might be required to take remedial action, which could include making modifications or renovations to Properties. Federal, state or local governments may also enact future laws and regulations that could require us to make significant modifications or renovations to the 9 Table of Contents Properties. If we were to incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulations, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, quoted trading prices of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. Our Properties are subject to land use rules and regulations that govern our development, redevelopment and use of our Properties. Restrictions on our ability to develop, redevelop or use our Properties resulting from changes in the existing land use rules and regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results from operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to repay indebtedness and to pay distributions to stockholders. For example, the Airport Land Use Commission is currently evaluating updates to the existing airport compatibility plans for all public and military airports in San Diego County, which if adopted could adversely impact our business in this region. Increasing utility costs and power outages in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California continues to address issues related to the supply of electricity and natural gas. In recent years, shortages of electricity have resulted in increased costs for consumers and certain interruptions in service. Increased consumer costs and consumer perception that the State is not able to effectively manage its energy needs may reduce demand for leased space in California office and industrial properties. A significant reduction in demand for office and industrial space would adversely affect our future financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders. Our debt level reduces cash available for distribution and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our Properties or to pay the distributions necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed by our debt agreements may have important consequences to us, including the following: · we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; · cash flow may be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments; · we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our Properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; · we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on the properties that secure the loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; and · our default under one mortgage loan with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If one or more of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could require us to pay income or excise tax notwithstanding our tax status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Internal Revenue Code”). As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $842.3 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, $10.8 million of which is contractually due prior to December 31, 2006. Our total debt and preferred equity represented 34.0% of our total market capitalization at December 31, 2005. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a presentation of our market capitalization. We face significant competition which may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of our Properties. We compete with several developers, owners and operators of office, industrial and other commercial real estate, 10 Table of Contents many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our Properties are located, but which have lower occupancy rates than our Properties. For instance, occupancy rates for our Del Mar stabilized office property portfolio in San Diego County at December 31, 2005 was 100% in comparison to 87.4% for the Del Mar submarket in total. We believe that our higher occupancy rates mean that, on average, our competitors have more space currently available for lease than we do. As a result, our competitors have an incentive to decrease rental rates until their available space is leased. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below the rates currently charged by us for comparable space, we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those currently charged in order to retain tenants when our tenant leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, quoted trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, rental loss and terrorism insurance covering all of our Properties. Management believes the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsurable losses such as loss from riots or acts of God. Some of our policies, like those covering losses due to floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments. Earthquake damage to our Properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We carry earthquake insurance on our Properties in an amount and with deductibles which management believes are commercially reasonable. As of December 31, 2005, all of our Properties are located in areas known to be subject to earthquakes. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on these properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes. In addition, we may discontinue earthquake insurance on some or all of our Properties in the future if the cost of premiums for earthquake insurance exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the properties were irreparable. We may be unable to complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. We continually evaluate the market of available properties and may acquire office and industrial properties when strategic opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them is subject to the following risks: · the potential inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; · even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of office and industrial properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to management’s satisfaction, and may never close; · we may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms; · we may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and · we may lease the acquired properties at below expected rental rates. If we cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms or operate acquired properties to meet financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully complete and operate developed and redeveloped properties. There are significant risks associated with property development including that: · we may be unable to obtain construction financing on favorable terms or at all; · we may be unable to obtain permanent financing including that on advantageous terms or at all if development projects are financed through construction loans; · we may be unable to lease developed properties at expected rental rates or within projected timeframes; · we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; · we may expend funds on and devote management’s time to projects which we may not complete; and · we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations. If one or more of these events were to occur in connection with our projects currently planned for development, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. While we primarily develop office and industrial properties in Southern California markets, we may in the future develop properties for retail or other use and expand our business to other geographic regions where we expect the development of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on our investment. Presently, we do not possess the same level of familiarity with development of other property types or outside markets, which could adversely affect our ability to develop properties or to achieve expected performance. We could default on leases for land on which some of our Properties are located. As of December 31, 2005, we owned ten office buildings located on various parcels, which we lease individually on a long-term basis. If we default under the terms of any particular lease, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the lease. Upon expiration of a lease and all of its options, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase of rental expense would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 1.5 million aggregate rentable square feet of rental space located on these leased parcels. The leases for the land under the seven buildings at the Kilroy Airport Center in Long Beach, California expire in 2084. The leases for the land under the three buildings at the SeaTac Office Center in Seattle, Washington including renewal options, expire in 2062. Real estate assets are illiquid and we may not be able to sell our Properties when we desire to. Our investments in our Properties are relatively illiquid, limiting our ability to sell our Properties quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes a 100% prohibited transaction tax on profits we derive from sales of properties held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, which effectively limits our ability to sell properties other than on a selected basis. These restrictions on our ability to sell our Properties could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results from operations, cash flows, quoted per share trading prices of our securities and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to repay indebtedness and to pay distributions to stockholders. Common limited partners of the Operating Partnership have limited approval rights, which may prevent us from completing a change of control transaction, that may be in the best interests of stockholders. We may not withdraw from the Operating Partnership or transfer its general partnership interest or admit another general partner without the approval of a majority of the common limited partnership unitholders except in the case of a “termination transaction” which requires the approval of 60% of the common unitholders, including the common units held by us in our capacity as general partner. The right of common limited partners to vote on these 12 Table of Contents transactions could limit our ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Limited partners of the Operating Partnership must approve the dissolution of the Operating Partnership and the disposition of properties they contributed. For as long as limited partners own at least 5% of all of the common units of the Operating Partnership, we must obtain the approval of limited partners holding a majority of the common units before we may dissolve the partnership. As of December 31, 2005, limited partners owned approximately 11.3% of the outstanding interests in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Operating Partnership has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the tax consequences to common limited partners resulting from the repayment, refinancing, replacement or restructuring of debt, or any sale, exchange or other disposition of any of our other assets. The exercise of one or more of these approval rights by the limited partners could delay or prevent us from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of our stockholders. The Chairman of our Board of Directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer each have substantial influence over our affairs. John B. Kilroy, Sr. is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the father of John B. Kilroy, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. Each is a member of our Board of Directors, and together, as of December 31, 2005, they beneficially own 573,871 shares of common stock and an aggregate of 1,728,072 units of the Company’s common limited partnership units, which are redeemable in exchange for, at our option, an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock, representing a total beneficial ownership of approximately 7.5% of the total outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2005, assuming the exchange, at our option, of the common limited partnership units held by Messrs. Kilroy into shares of our common stock. Pursuant to our charter, no other stockholder may own, actually or constructively, more than 7.0% of our common stock without obtaining a waiver from the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B. Kilroy, Jr., members of their families and some of their affiliated entities. These named individuals and entities may own either actually or constructively, in the aggregate, up to 21% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Messrs. Kilroy have substantial influence on us and could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of our stockholders. Also, they may, in the future, have a substantial influence on the outcome of any matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. There are limits on the ownership of our capital stock, which limit the opportunities for a change of control at a premium to existing stockholders. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter, our bylaws, and the Operating Partnership’s partnership agreement may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control over the Company or the removal of existing management. Any of these actions might prevent the stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of stock over the then prevailing market prices. The Internal Revenue Code contains stringent ownership limits on the Company as a result of its decision to be taxed as a REIT, including: · no more than 50% in value of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, including some entities, during the last half of a taxable year; · subject to exceptions, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year, or a proportionate part of a short taxable year; and · if we, or any entity which owns 10% or more of our capital stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of our tenants, or a tenant of any partnership in which we are a partner, then any rents that we receive from that tenant in question will not be qualifying income for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code’s REIT gross income tests, regardless of whether we receives the rents directly or through a partnership. 13 Table of Contents Our charter also establishes clear ownership limits to protect our REIT status. No single stockholder may own, either actually or constructively, absent a waiver from the Board of Directors, more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our common stock outstanding. Similarly, absent a waiver from the Board of Directors, no single holder of our 7.45% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and 9.25% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock (“Series D Preferred Stock”), if issued, may actually or constructively own any class or series of our preferred stock, so that their total capital stock ownership would exceed 7.0% by value of our total outstanding shares of capital stock, no single holder of our Series B Junior Participating Preferred stock, if issued, may actually or constructively own more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our Series B Preferred Stock, no single holder of our 7.8% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our Series E Preferred Stock, and no single holder of our 7.5% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our Series F Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors may waive the ownership limits if it is satisfied that the excess ownership would not jeopardize our REIT status and if it believes that the waiver would be in our best interests. The Board of Directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B. Kilroy, Jr., members of their families and some of their affiliated entities. These named individuals and entities may own either actually or constructively, in the aggregate, up to 21% of our outstanding common stock. If anyone acquires shares in excess of any ownership limits, the transfer to the transferee will be void with respect to these excess shares, the excess shares will be automatically transferred from the transferee or owner to a trust for the benefit of a qualified charitable organization, the purported transferee or owner will have no right to vote those excess shares, and the purported transferee or owner will have no right to receive dividends or other distributions from these excess shares. Our charter contains provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a change of control transaction. Our Board of Directors is divided into classes that serve staggered terms. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms. The staggered terms for directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to complete a change of control transaction even if a tender offer or a change in control is in our stockholders’ interest. We could issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including convertible preferred stock, without stockholder approval. The Board of Directors may establish the preferences, rights and other terms, including the right to vote and the right to convert into common stock any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could delay or prevent a tender offer or a change of control even if a tender offer or a change of control was in our stockholders’ interest. The Operating Partnership has issued 1,500,000 7.45% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred units (the “Series A Preferred Units”) which in the future may be redeemed for cash or, at our option, for an equal number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, we have designated and authorized the issuance of up to 400,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2005, 5,060,000 shares of our preferred stock are issued and outstanding, consisting of 1,610,000 shares of our Series E Preferred Stock and 3,450,000 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock. We have a stockholders’ rights plan. Each share of our common stock includes the right to purchase one-hundredth (1/100) of a share of our Series B Preferred Stock. The rights have anti-takeover effects and would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our Board of Directors does not approve. We may redeem the shares for $.01 per right, prior to the time that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. Therefore, the rights should not interfere with any merger or business combination approved by our Board of Directors. 14 Table of Contents The staggered terms for directors, provisions for removal of directors, the future issuance of additional common or preferred stock and the stockholders’ rights plan may delay or prevent a change of control over the Company, even if a change of control might be beneficial to our stockholders, deter tender offers that may be beneficial to our stockholders, or limit stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares if an investor attempted to gain shares beyond our ownership limits or otherwise to effect a change of control. Loss of our REIT status would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our stock. We currently operate in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. If we were to lose our REIT status, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to stockholders for each of the years involved because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and · unless entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although management believes that we are organized and operate in a manner to qualify as a REIT, we cannot be certain that we have been or will continue to be organized or be able to operate in a manner to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. To maintain our REIT status we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% non-deductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. 15 Table of Contents Our growth depends on external sources of capital which are outside of our control. We are required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, management relies on third-party sources of capital to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: general market conditions; the market’s perception of our growth potential; our current and expected future earnings; our cash flow and cash distributions; and the quoted market prices of our securities. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy its debt service obligations, or make the cash distributions to stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our Board of Directors may change investment and financing policies without stockholder approval causing us to become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. We are not limited in our ability to incur debt. Our financing policies and objectives are determined by our Board of Directors. Our goal is to limit our dependence on leverage and maintain a conservative ratio of debt to total market capitalization. However, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $842.3 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, which represented 27.4% of our total market capitalization. Our total debt and the liquidation value of our preferred equity as a percentage of total market capitalization was approximately 34.0% at December 31, 2005. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a presentation of our market capitalization. This ratio may be increased or decreased without the consent of our stockholders. Increases in the amount of debt outstanding would result in an increase in our debt service, which could adversely affect cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations and limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. We may issue additional shares of capital stock without stockholder approval, which may dilute stockholder investment. We may issue shares of our common stock, preferred stock or other equity or debt securities without stockholder approval. Similarly, we may cause the Operating Partnership to offer its common or preferred units for contributions of cash or property without approval by the limited partners of the Operating Partnership or our stockholders. Existing stockholders have no preemptive rights to acquire any of these securities, and any issuance of equity securities under these circumstances may dilute a stockholder’s investment. We may invest in securities related to real estate which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We may purchase securities issued by entities which own real estate and may, in the future, also invest in mortgages. In general, investments in mortgages are subject to several risks, including: · borrowers may fail to make debt service payments or pay the principal when due; · the value of the mortgaged property may be less than the principal amount of the mortgage note securing the property; and · interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than our cost for the funds used to acquire these mortgages. Owning these securities may not entitle us to control the ownership, operation and management of the underlying real estate. In addition, we may have no control over the distributions with respect to these securities, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our securities, or the perception that this could occur, could result in decreasing the quoted market price per share for our securities. Management cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will result in decreasing the market price per share of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, 28,970,703 shares of our common stock and 5,060,000 shares of our preferred stock, consisting of 1,610,000 shares of our Series E Preferred Stock and 3,450,000 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock, were issued and outstanding and we had reserved for future issuance the following shares of common stock: 3,669,515 shares issuable upon the exchange, at our option, of common limited partnership units; 287,471 shares issuable under the Company’s 1997 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; and 1,000,000 shares issuable under the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, we have filed registration statements covering all of the shares of common stock reserved for future issuance as of the date of this report. Consequently, if and when the shares are issued, they may be freely traded in the public markets. Future terrorist activity or engagement in war by the United States may have an adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001 and other acts of terrorism or war, may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for and the value of our Properties. In addition, the public perception that certain locations are at greater risk for attack, such as major airports, ports and rail facilities, may decrease the demand for and the value of our Properties near these sites. A decrease in demand would make it difficult for us to renew or release our Properties at these sites at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities also could directly impact the value of our Properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for these acts may be less, and cost more, which would adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. Terrorist acts and engagement in war by the United States also may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade, and may cause further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending and may result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events may cause a decline in the demand for our office and industrial leased space, delay the time in which our new or renovated properties reach stabilized occupancy, increase our operating expenses, such as those attributable to increased physical security for our Properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 