D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market We have had operating losses in the past and may not sustain profitability in the future; to the extent that we incur operating losses, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our operations in the future. While we have generated operating profits in three of the past four years, we may not be able to sustain profitable operations in the future or generate positive cash flows from operations. To the extent that we incur operating losses in the future or are unable to generate free cash flows from our business, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our operations in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will be required to obtain additional financing or reduce level of expenditure. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms satisfactory to us. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, and results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We derive the majority of our revenues from TEM call accounting solutions, the market for which has declined in recent years. The majority of our revenues are derived from our TEM call accounting solutions, whose revenues declined each year from 2006 through 2014 and revenues for these products may not grow in the future. If the market for our TEM solutions fails to grow or stabilize in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our future financial performance will be dependent to a substantial degree on the successful introduction, marketing and customer acceptance of our TEM call accounting solutions. If we do not replace the revenues generated by Simple Mobile LLC, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our improved operations during the three years ended December 31, 2013 were attributable in great measure to our entry into the mobile virtual network operator, or MVNO, services business. We provide services to MVNOs and assist them to reduce their time to market, focus on sales and marketing and reduce their initial capital expenses. The emergence of the MVNO model in various markets worldwide is mostly related to changes in regulations and in the ability of MVNOs to address new market segments that may increase their revenue streams. Our first MVNO customer was Simple Mobile, a U.S.-based MVNO, for whom we provided MVNE services. In 2012 and 2013, sales attributable to Simple Mobile accounted for approximately 22.8% and 33.3% of our revenues, respectively. During 2012, Simple Mobile was acquired by TracFone and in 2013 TracFone migrated the hosted billing services to their own platform and did not renew their agreement with us. We are continuing our efforts to gain new customers for our MVNO services, but our future success cannot be assured. If we do not replace the revenues generated by Simple Mobile LLC, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 6 We are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change and risks associated with new versions and new products. The information and telecommunication service providers market in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, introductions of new products, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with the technological developments and to timely address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and new telecommunication technologies and services and by developing and introducing enhancements to our current and new products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products that will respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of such enhancements or such enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve any significant degrees of market acceptance. If release dates of any new products or enhancements are delayed, or if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new product offerings or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of current versions of our products, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our results may be adversely affected by intense competition. The market for telemanagement products and invoice management solutions is fragmented and is intensely competitive. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, depth of product line, technical support and price. We compete both with international and local competitors (including providers of telecommunications services), many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We anticipate continuing competition in the telemanagement products and invoice management solution market and the entrance of new competitors into the market. Our existing and potential customers, including business telephone switching system manufacturers and vendors, may be able to develop telemanagement products and services that are as effective as, or more effective or easier to use than, those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise and distribution channels. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and that competition may adversely affect our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. We believe that, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the communications industry, the most significant factors in our intellectual property rights are the knowledge, ability and experience of our employees, the frequency of product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of support services provided by us. In addition, we rely upon a combination of security devices, copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions to protect our rights in our products. We try to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of our products, and we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate or our competition may independently develop similar technology. It is possible that third parties will claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. We believe that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merits, could: (i) result in costly litigation; (ii) divert management’s attention and resources; (iii) cause product shipment delays; or (iv) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of product infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are not aware that we are infringing upon any proprietary rights of third parties. 7 Our operating results fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly and annual results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to the following: · demand for our products; · ability to retain existing customers; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · new product announcements by us and our competitors; · the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; · product life cycles; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; · changes in the level of our operating expenses; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; · changes in our strategy; · seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; and · currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate. Our expense levels are substantially based on our expectations for future revenues and are therefore relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. Our operating results are generally not characterized by a seasonal pattern, except that our sales in Europe are generally lower in the summer months. We typically ship orders for our TABS product shortly after receipt of a purchase order and, consequently, order backlog at the beginning of any quarter has in the past represented only a small portion of that quarter’s revenues. As a result, license revenues from our TABS product in any quarter depend substantially on orders for TABS products that have been booked and shipped in that quarter. Also, we cannot predict whether revenues from our TEM Suite will be recognized in any quarter because the delivery and, in some cases, the implementation of all the components of the TEM Suite (including among, other things, customer training) are dependent on the customers individual timing requirements, which can delay the completion of these orders. In addition, a portion of our revenues from billing solutions are generated by using contract accounting on a percentage of completion method and because the completion pace varies from quarter to quarter and is dependent on different variables that are out of our control, a portion of our billing solutions revenues in any quarter depend on our customers’ operational plans, which can delay our ability to progress and complete the projects. 8 Due to the foregoing, our quarterly financial performance has varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance, and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. In some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be adversely affected. Accordingly, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that our future operating results will be adversely affected by these or other factors. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon them as indications of future performance. Unfavorable national and global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Worsening economic conditions, such as the continued European sovereign debt uncertainty, may result in diminished demand for our products and in decreased sales volumes. Although global economic conditions have stabilized or improved since the 2008 financial crisis, many of the markets in which we operate have not fully recovered. If the economies in the countries in which we operate continue to be uncertain or weaken further, the demand for our products and technology may decrease as a result of constraints on capital spending by our customers. In addition, this could result in longer sales cycles and increased price competition for our products. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, Europe or Asia or other key markets, remain uncertain or weaken further, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Because we collect and recognize revenue from services over the term of our customer agreements, the lack of customer renewals or new customer agreements may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We collect and recognize revenue from our customers in service agreements over the term of their agreements with us. As a result, the aggregate effect of a decline in new or renewed customer agreements in any one quarter would not be fully recognized in our revenue for that quarter, but would negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Consequently, the aggregate effect of significant upturns or downturns in sales of our solution would not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We face risks associated with expanding and maintaining our distribution network. We sell our products through distributors, business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors, post, telephone and telegraph authorities, or PTTs and our direct sales force. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors and PTTs, and establishing and maintaining relationships with distributors. Historically, we have at times experienced difficulty in establishing effective distribution relationships. We may not be able to successfully expand our distribution channels or any such expansion may not result in an increase in revenues. The failure to expand or maintain our distribution channels could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We are based in Israel and generate a large percentage of our sales in the United States. Our sales in the United States accounted for 78.1%, 86.4% and 79.8% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: · the impact of recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; · costs of localizing products for foreign markets; · longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; 9 · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. Our distributors or resellers may not be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or the foregoing factors may adversely affect our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While our revenues are generally denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, a portion of our expenses, primarily salaries, are incurred in NIS. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions in order to mitigate such fluctuations. Any hedging transactions that we enter into may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. In addition, if, for any reason, exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies into NIS were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. Currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our revenues from international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on business telephone system manufacturers, vendors and distributors for our sales. Historically, one of the primary distribution channels for our call accounting management products has been private branch exchange, or PBX, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and vendors who market our products to end-users in conjunction with their own products. We are dependent upon the active marketing and distribution efforts of our PBX OEMs and local master distributors. Sales of call accounting solutions by PBX manufacturers and vendors have declined markedly in the recent past, and sales through this channel may continue to decline. Our future success will be dependent to a substantial degree on the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties in marketing and integrating our products. These third parties may not give priority to the sale of our products as an enhancement to their products. Although most of the major business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors currently rely on third party suppliers to provide call accounting and other telemanagement products, these manufacturers and vendors, including our current customers, may develop their own competing products or purchase competing products from others. Because we sell our products through local master distributors in countries where we do not have a marketing subsidiary, we are highly dependent upon the active marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors. We also depend in large part upon our distributors for product maintenance and support. Our distributors may not continue to provide adequate maintenance and support to end-users or provide maintenance and support for new products, which might cause us to seek new or additional distributors or incur additional service and support costs. The distributors to whom we sell our products are generally not contractually required to make future purchases of our products and could, therefore, discontinue carrying our products at any time. None of our distributors or resellers is subject to any minimum purchase requirements under their agreements with us. We may not be able to continue our relationships with our OEM customers or, if such relationships are not maintained, we may not be able to attract and retain comparable PBX OEMs. The loss of any of our major reseller or OEM relationships, either to competitive products offered by other companies or products developed by such resellers, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional PBX manufacturers and vendors that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. 10 Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause equipment failures or disrupt our systems and operations. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber-attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. Such an event may result in our inability to operate our facilities, which, even if the event is for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other competitors in the market for telemanagement products and invoice management solutions. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. A failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber-attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. However, to date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks arising from product defects and potential product liability. We may generally provide a warranty for up to three months for end-users and, in limited instances, up to twelve months. Our sales agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. The limitation of liability provisions contained in our agreements may not be effective. Our products are used by businesses to reduce communication costs, recover charges payable by third parties, prevent abuse and misuse of telephone networks and converged billing solutions for information and telecommunication service providers, and as a result, the sale of products by us may entail the risk of product liability and related claims. A product liability claim brought against us could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Products such as those offered by us may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our testing and testing by current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of these errors could result in adverse publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance or claims by customers against us, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to retain or attract the key managerial, technical and research and development personnel we need to succeed. Our success has largely depended and will depend in the future on our skilled professional and technical employees. The competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our present employees, or recruit additional qualified employees as we require them. The loss of any key member of our management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives. Our ability to replace key members of our management team and hire additional skilled personnel in the future might be negatively impacted by the use of restrictive covenants in our industry and market. Any failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical and research and development personnel could adversely affect our ability to generate sales, deploy our products or successfully develop new products and enhancements. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. 11 Risks Factors Arising From Our Pending Acquisition of Vexigo Payment of the cash consideration pursuant to the Vexigo Transaction will significantly decrease our cash reserves, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial strength. As of January 31, 2015, we held cash and restricted marketable securities of approximately $5.1 million. Pursuant to the terms of the Vexigo Transaction, we will be required to pay an aggregate amount in cash of $4 million as consideration, with $3 million to be paid upon closing and two additional payments of $500,000 each three and six months following the Closing. Therefore, the consummation of the Vexigo Transaction will significantly decrease our cash reserves. In the event we will not be successful at generating sufficient cash from our current operations or from Vexigo’s operations, we may not be able to continue to manage our operations and may be required to obtain financing from outside sources or reduce our level of expenditure. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms satisfactory to us. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The earn-out payments under the terms of the Vexigo transaction will reduce our ability to use cash generated from Vexigo’s operations in order to fund our operations and the potential growth of our business. The Vexigo Transaction requires us to pay the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers earn-out payments equal to 45% of the EBITDA from the Vexigo Products Line (as such term is defined in the Vexigo SPA) for a period of 5.5 years from Closing, subject to certain limitations and up to a cap of $16 million. As the Earn-out Payments are calculated based on EBITDA, certain payments and liabilities of Vexigo, including any tax liability, will not be taken into account in the calculation of the payments, which will further decrease the cash generated by Vexigo’s operations left in Vexigo and/or in MTS. This mechanism will effectively reduce our ability to use cash generated from Vexigo’s operations in order to fund our operations and the potential growth of our other business lines for the period in which Earn-out Payments are made. The issuance of the equity consideration in connection with the Vexigo Transaction will dilute the holdings of all of our existing shareholders as of the Closing and will result in our current shareholders holding 60% of our outstanding shares immediately following the Closing. As the equity consideration to be issued to the Sellers and FPSV Sellers in connection with the Vexigo Transaction represents 40% of our outstanding shares post-Closing, the holdings of shareholders that beneficially own our shares immediately prior to Closing will be diluted upon Closing, resulting in our current shareholders holding 60% of our outstanding shares immediately following the Closing. Following the Closing, it is expected that there will be six (6) shareholders who will beneficially own more than 5% of our outstanding shares and none of them will hold more than 15% of our outstanding shares. Therefore, the market price per share of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected by the issuance of the Equity Consideration and following the Closing will be significantly dependent on the future success of the Vexigo business. The Vexigo Transaction is structured as a share purchase rather than an asset purchase, which could expose us to additional liabilities; we will only be entitled to request limited indemnification from the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers for damages arising out of the Vexigo Transaction and may be subject to indemnification claims from the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers. Except under specific circumstances, we are entitled to indemnification from the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers for damages resulting from certain breaches of representations and warranties and of the Vexigo SPA that are limited in amount and time. In addition, the Vexigo SPA provides for our obligation to indemnify the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers for damages resulting from certain breaches of representations and warranties and of the Vexigo SPA that, except under specific circumstances, are also limited in amount and time. To the extent our damages are higher than the amounts set forth in the Vexigo SPA or are discovered after the expiration of the relevant representation or warranty, we will not be entitled to indemnification. To the extent the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers incur damages, we may be subject to indemnification obligations. The Vexigo Transaction is structured as a share acquisition rather than an asset acquisition, and we are also acquiring the shares of an additional company, FPSV. The purchase of shares as opposed to an acquisition of assets, could expose us to additional liabilities which are unrelated to the current business of Vexigo. Any such occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 12 We have no control over the operations of Vexigo or FPSV during the period between signing of the Vexigo SPA and Closing of the Vexigo Transaction, and actions taken during such period may adversely affect the operations of these companies. Although the Vexigo SPA contains several provisions aimed at ensuring that no material changes will occur to the Vexigo or FPSV operations in the period between signing and Closing, we have no control over the conduct of business or operations of either company during such period. Certain actions taken or not taken during such period may adversely affect the operations and business of these companies, and if these do not amount to a Material Adverse Effect, as defined in the Vexigo SPA, we will still be required to consummate the Vexigo Transaction. If the benefits of the Vexigo Transaction do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. The market price of our ordinary shares may decline as a result of the Vexigo Transaction if Vexigo does not perform as expected or if we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the Vexigo Transaction as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts. Accordingly, our shareholders may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares held by them, and our ability to raise future capital, if necessary, by selling our ordinary shares may be materially adversely affected. Our ability to manage our operations during the period prior to Closing is limited and subject to the undertakings included in the Vexigo SPA. The Vexigo SPA contains restrictions on the operation of our business and management of our company during the period between signing of the Vexigo SPA and the Closing of the Vexigo Transaction. Therefore, during such period we may not be able to perform certain actions or enter into certain agreements that we would otherwise perform or execute and certain business opportunities may become unavailable or materially different due to changes implemented at the request of the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers. The loss of such opportunities may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the Vexigo Transaction is not consummated by June 3, 2015 or if one of the conditions to Closing is not fulfilled or waived, either we or the Sellers and the FPSV Sellers may choose to terminate the Vexigo SPA. To the extent any of the conditions to Closing is not fulfilled or waived by the relevant party to the Vexigo SPA, the other party to the Vexigo SPA may terminate the SPA, resulting in a loss of the time, efforts and funds expended by us on the Vexigo Transaction up to the date of termination. Risks Factors Following the Anticipated Closing of the Vexigo Transaction We do not have independent expertise in Vexigo’s line of business and will significantly depend on the continuing employment and cooperation of Vexigo’s employees and management both in managing the Vexigo business and in integrating the Vexigo business into our company. We do not have independent expertise in the field of online advertising and therefore following the closing of the Vexigo Transaction we will be extensively dependent on the cooperation and expertise of Vexigo’s management and employees. If we do not receive sufficient cooperation from Vexigo’s management and employees or in the event any of Vexigo’s key employees terminates his employment with Vexigo, this could result in a significant adverse effect on Vexigo’s operations. There is also no assurance that we could locate alternative officers or employees in the place of former officers or employees of Vexigo in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Vexigo is a private company and as such was not subject to the regulation applicable to us as a foreign private issuer, including with respect to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Vexigo is privately-held and is not currently subject to the reporting and other obligations applicable to foreign private issuers or to companies traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, Vexigo’s financial reporting was outsourced and Vexigo did not use in-house designated software for the creation and maintaining of its financial records. Following Closing, we will be required to implement or strengthen the work procedures in Vexigo and to acquire appropriate software and enhance the finance team in Vexigo in order to ensure our continued compliance with applicable regulations, including with respect to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. The implementation process will likely divert management time and employee attention, both in Vexigo and our company, from the operations of both companies and will entail additional costs and expenses. If we are not successful in implementing the proper procedures, there could be future deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial that will render them ineffective and will require us to contain relevant declarations in our future filings with the SEC. 13 We may encounter difficulties in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the Vexigo Transaction or any future transactions. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that the acquisition of Vexigo or other companies in the future, will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. In the future, we may seek to acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties in the future in order to expand our business. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has previously developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that new product enhancements will be made in a timely manner or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. We may face difficulties in connection with the Vexigo Transaction or other transactions, including: · Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired businesses or enterprises; · Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; · Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; · Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and · The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. If we fail to manage our growth, our business could be disrupted and our profitability will likely decline. We expect to experience significant growth upon the acquisition of Vexigo through both acquisitions and organic growth. Such growth may significantly strain our management and other operational and financial resources. In particular, headcount growth increases the integration challenges involved in: · recruiting, training and retaining skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; · maintaining high quality standards; · preserving our corporate culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal controls; and · maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support the growth in our operations, and our management may not be able to achieve the execution necessary to exploit the market opportunities for our businesses. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, we may not be profitable. Vexigo’s limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its business and prospects and assess its future viability. While Vexigo was incorporated in 2010, it only initiated its current line of business at the beginning of 2014 and, as a result, has only a limited operating history upon which its business and future prospects may be evaluated. Such limited operating history makes it difficult to establish conclusions about trends and patterns for upcoming periods. Although Vexigo has experienced substantial revenue growth in its limited history, it may not be able to sustain this rate of growth or even maintain its current revenue levels in the future. 14 If Vexigo does not manage its growth effectively, the quality of its solutions or its relationships with its customers may suffer, and its operating results may be negatively affected. Vexigo has encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly developing and changing industries, including challenges related to recruiting, integrating and retaining qualified employees; making effective use of its limited resources; achieving market acceptance of its existing and future offerings, including its newly introduced Visualizer solution, as well as its shift into the video advertiser industry; competing against companies with greater financial and technical resources; acquiring and retaining customers and maintaining relationships with advertisers, advertising agencies and owners of publishing space and publisher agencies; and developing new offerings. Vexigo’s current operational infrastructure may require changes for it to scale its business efficiently and effectively to keep pace with demand for its solutions and achieve long-term profitability. If Vexigo fails to implement these changes on a timely basis, or if it is unable to implement them effectively or at all due to factors beyond its control or other reasons, its business may suffer. Vexigo cannot provide assurance that it will be successful in addressing these and other challenges it may face in the future. As a growing company in a rapidly evolving industry, Vexigo’s business prospects depend in large part on its ability to: ● develop and offer a competitive technology platform and offerings that meet Vexigo’s advertising and publishing customers’ needs as they change; ● build a reputation for superior solutions and create trust and long-term relationships with advertisers and advertising agencies, as well as owners of mobile and online publishing platforms; ● distinguish itself from competitors in the industry; ● maintain and expand its relationships with the sources of quality advertising space through which Vexigo executes its customers’ media campaigns; ● respond to evolving industry standards and government regulations that impact Vexigo’s business, particularly in the areas of data collection and consumer privacy; ● prevent or otherwise mitigate failures or breaches of security or privacy; ● expand its business internationally; and ● attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified and motivated employees. If Vexigo is unable to meet one or more of these objectives or otherwise adequately address the risks and difficulties that it faces, its business may suffer, its revenue may decline and it may not be able to achieve further growth or long-term profitability. To manage its growth effectively, Vexigo must continue to improve and expand its infrastructure, including its information technology, or IT, systems, financial and administrative systems and controls. Vexigo must also continue to manage its employees, operations, finances, research and development and capital investments efficiently. Vexigo’s productivity and the quality of its solutions may be adversely affected if it does not integrate and train its new employees, particularly its sales and account management personnel, quickly and effectively and if it fails to appropriately coordinate across its executive, engineering, finance, human resources, legal, marketing, sales, operations and customer support teams. If Vexigo continues its rapid growth, it will incur additional expenses, and its growth may continue to place a strain on its resources, infrastructure and ability to maintain the quality of its solutions. If Vexigo does not adapt to meet these evolving growth challenges, and if the current and future members of its management team do not effectively scale with its growth, the quality of its solutions may suffer and its corporate culture may be harmed. Failure to manage its future growth effectively could cause its business to suffer, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. 15 If Vexigo fails to make the right investment decisions in its offerings and technology platforms, it may not attract and retain media affiliates and its revenue and results of operations may decline. With its digital video advertising solution, Vexigo competes for advertisers and publishers, which are often represented by agencies, who want to purchase digital media for advertising campaigns. Vexigo’s industry is subject to rapid changes in standards, technologies, products and service offerings, as well as in advertiser and publisher demands and expectations. Vexigo continuously needs to make decisions regarding which offerings and technology to invest in to meet media affiliates’ demand and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Vexigo may make wrong decisions regarding these investments. If new or existing competitors offer more attractive offerings than those of Vexigo, it may lose affiliates or affiliates may decrease their spending on its solutions. New media affiliates’ demand for superior competitive offerings or new industry standards could render Vexigo’s existing solutions unattractive, unmarketable or obsolete and require it to make substantial unanticipated changes to its technology platform or business model, resulting in additional expenses and loss of revenues. Vexigo’s failure to adapt to a rapidly changing market or to anticipate media affiliates’ demand could harm its business and its financial performance. Vexigo may experience fluctuations in its operating results, which make its future results difficult to predict and could cause its operating results to fall below investors’ and analysts’ expectations. Vexigo’s future operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond Vexigo’s control. Vexigo’s fluctuating results could cause its performance to fall below our expectations and adversely affect the outcome of the Vexigo Transaction. Because Vexigo’s business is changing and evolving rapidly, its historical operating results may not be useful in predicting its future operating results. Factors that may increase the volatility of Vexigo’s operating results include the following: ● the addition or loss of media affiliates; ● changes in demand and pricing for Vexigo’s solutions; ● Vexigo’s ability to effectively market and integrate its newly introduced Visualizr solution; ● the seasonal nature of Vexigo’s customers’ spending on video advertising campaigns; ● changes in Vexigo’s pricing policies or the pricing policies of its competitors and the pricing of video advertising space or of other third-party services; ● the introduction of new technologies, products or service offerings by Vexigo’s competitors; ● changes in Vexigo’s customers’ video advertising budget allocations, agency affiliations, or marketing strategies; ● changes and uncertainty in the regulatory environment applicable to Vexigo or its affiliates; ● changes in the economic prospects of Vexigo’s video advertisers or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities or could increase the time or costs required to complete sales with advertisers; ● changes in the availability of video advertising space through real-time advertising exchanges or in the cost to reach end consumers through video advertising; ● changes in Vexigo’s capital expenditures as it acquires the hardware, equipment and other assets required to support its business; and ● costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies and to recruitment and retention of employees and consultants. Based upon all of the factors described above and others that Vexigo may not anticipate, including those beyond its control, it has a limited ability to forecast its future revenue, costs and expenses. As a result, Vexigo’s operating results may from time to time fall below its estimates or the expectations of investors and analysts. 16 The online advertising market is highly competitive. In order to compete effectively, Vexigo may be required to reduce the cost of the advertising space it sells, and there can be no assurance that the price paid by Vexigo for advertising space will decline at all or to the same extent. A reduction in Vexigo’s gross margin without an increase in revenues and an improved technological ability will adversely affect Vexigo’s financial condition and operating results. The online advertising market, although growing rapidly, is also characterized by extensive competition and consolidation. Due to the short-term nature of the commercial relationship and in order to compete effectively, market participants, including Vexigo, may be required to implement price cutting. There can be no assurance that the cost of advertising space will decline at all or to the same extent due, especially the cost of high-quality advertising space. In the event Vexigo’s gross margin decreases, Vexigo will be required to implement several measures in order to attempt to maintain or improve its profitability. Such measures include, among others, an attempt to increase sales, implementing improvements to the technology in order to decrease the amount of advertising space that expires before it is sold and improving the services provided in order to maintain and attract customers. There can be no assurance that Vexigo will succeed in implementing the required measures, resulting in a decrease in gross margin and an adverse effect on Vexigo’s financial condition and operating results. If Vexigo’s access to quality digital video advertising space is diminished or if Vexigo fails to acquire new advertising space, its revenues could decline and its growth could be impeded. Vexigo must maintain a consistent supply of attractive digital video advertising space. Vexigo’s success depends on its ability to secure quality advertising space on reasonable terms across a broad range of advertising networks and exchanges, including LiveRail, Brightroll and SpotXchange. The amount, quality and cost of advertising space available to Vexigo can change at any time. Vexigo’s suppliers are generally not bound by long-term contracts. The sellers that supply their advertising space to Vexigo typically do so on a non-exclusive basis and are not required to provide it with any minimum amounts of advertising space or with a consistent supply of advertising space. Sellers may seek to change the terms at which they offer advertising space to Vexigo, or they may elect to make advertising space available to Vexigo’s competitors who offer advertisements to them on more favorable economic terms. As a result, Vexigo cannot provide any assurance that it will have access to a consistent supply of quality digital video advertisement space. Moreover, the number of competing intermediaries that purchase advertising space from real-time advertising exchanges continues to increase, which could put upward pressure on advertising space costs. If sellers decide not to make media space available to Vexigo, decide to increase the price of advertising space, or place significant restrictions on the sale of their advertising space, Vexigo may not be able to replace this with advertising space from other sellers that satisfies its requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, significant sellers in the industry may enter into exclusivity arrangements with Vexigo’s competitors, which could limit its access to a meaningful supply of advertising space. If Vexigo is unable to compete favorably for advertising space available on real-time advertising exchanges, or if real-time advertising exchanges decide not to make their advertising space available to Vexigo, Vexigo may not be able to place advertisements at competitive rates or find alternative sources of advertising space with comparable traffic patterns and consumer demographics in a timely manner. Furthermore, the advertising space that Vexigo accesses through real-time advertising exchanges may be of low quality or misrepresented to it, despite attempts by Vexigo and its suppliers to prevent fraud and conduct quality assurance checks. In the event Vexigo detects the low quality or fraudulent advertising space, it will lose the funds invested in acquiring such advertising space. In the event Vexigo is not successful in detecting such low quality or fraudulent advertising space and sells it to its customers, Vexigo may become subject to indemnification claims by its customers and its reputation may be harmed, resulting in decreased revenues from, or the cessation of commercial relationships with, the affected advertising agencies, advertisers or their affiliates. Vexigo relies on “Demand Side Platforms,” or DSPs, and “Video Ad Exchanges” to purchase its solutions on behalf of advertising agencies or advertisers, and incurs the cost of an advertising campaign before it is paid for its services and the advertising space. Such agencies and advertisers may have or develop high-risk credit profiles, which may result in credit risk to Vexigo. Vexigo must consider the effect of credit risk in transactions with agencies or other third parties and advertisers. A substantial portion of Vexigo’s business is sourced through Video Ad Exchanges and DSPs. These Video Ad Exchanges and DSPs represent advertising agencies and advertisers and payment of fees to Vexigo originates with the advertising agencies or advertisers and is submitted through the Video Ad Exchanges and DSPs. Certain of the advertising agencies or advertisers have or may develop high-risk credit profiles, and to the extent they do, not remit payment or transfer only a portion of the payment due to Vexigo. The credit risk of advertising agencies may vary depending on the nature of an advertising agency’s aggregated advertiser base. There can be no assurances that Vexigo will not experience bad debt expense in the future. Any such write-offs for bad debt could have a materially negative effect on Vexigo’s results of operations for the periods in which the write-offs occur. Even if Vexigo is not paid, Vexigo is still obligated to pay for the media it has purchased for the advertising campaign, and as a consequence, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 17 Vexigo’s revenue and operating results are highly dependent on the overall demand for advertising, specifically online video advertising. Vexigo’s business depends on the overall demand for advertising, specifically online video advertising, and on the economic health of its current and prospective publishers and advertisers. If advertisers reduce their overall advertising spending, Vexigo’s revenue and results of operations are directly affected. Economic downturns or instability in political or market conditions generally may cause current or new advertisers to reduce their advertising budgets. Adverse economic conditions and general uncertainty about economic recovery are likely to affect Vexigo’s business prospects. Legislation and regulation of digital businesses and industry standards adopted by key market players, such as Google, could create unexpected additional costs or termination of services, subject Vexigo to enforcement actions for compliance failures, or cause Vexigo to change its technology solutions or business models, which may have an adverse effect on the demand for Vexigo’s solutions. In the course of Vexigo’s business, Vexigo collects, stores, transmits, and uses information related to computing and communications devices, user activity on devices, and advertisements placed through Vexigo’s solutions. In addition, the online advertising field is subject to Federal, European and other regulation, including with respect to data protection and targeting minors and children, for example, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998. In addition, several governments are considering legislation related to digital advertising and certain media advertising organizations, such as the Network Advertising Initiative and the Interactive Advertising Bureau, adopted “best practice” guidelines with which Vexigo may be required to comply pursuant to current or future contractual undertakings. Such legislation and industry standards adopted by key players in the market, such as Google, could affect the costs of doing business online, and may adversely affect the demand for or effectiveness and value of Vexigo’s solutions. Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or limitations on advertisers’ ability to use cookies may diminish the interest of advertisers in online advertising campaigns, resulting in a material adverse effect on Vexigo’s results of operations. Vexigo’s technology currently does not use cookies, which are small files of information placed on an internet user’s computer, to collect information about the user’s visits to websites, however, Vexigo may wish to use cookies in the future in order to improve and expand its services. In addition, advertisers who place ads using Vexigo’s services do use cookies placed by them on the targeted users’ computers. Third-party software and internet browsers make it easy for users to block or delete cookies and several regulators, currently mainly in Europe, impose restrictions and regulatory requirements on the ability to use and place cookies. Further, several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, block cookies by default or prompt users to delete or block cookies. For example, in March 2013 Apple informed developers that starting May 1, 2013 the App Store will no longer accept new apps or app updates that access the device’s unique identifier (UDID). If advertisers are not up to speed with these changes, their ability to benefit from Vexigo’s services may be impaired. If a large proportion of users delete or block cookies, this could undermine the value of the data that advertisers collect and Vexigo’s ability to use cookies for its business purposes. To the extent advertisers will not be able to place cookies or collect information using cookies or any other technology, their interest in online advertising campaigns may diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on Vexigo’s results of operations. 18 Vexigo has historically relied, and expects to continue to rely, on one major supplier of its advertising space and a small number of customers for a significant portion of its revenue. The loss of the supplier or any of these customers could significantly harm Vexigo’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a majority of Vexigo’s revenue. During 2014, Vexigo’s top three customers accounted for 86% of its revenue. In addition, Vexigo currently relies on one major supplier, AppNexus, for a significant portion of its advertising space (approximately 82% during 2014). While Vexigo expects this reliance to decrease over time, it expects that it will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of suppliers and customers for a significant portion of its advertising space and revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, if Vexigo fails to successfully attract or retain new or existing suppliers and customers, if the existing major supplier terminates or materially alters its commercial relationship with Vexigo or if existing customers run fewer advertising campaigns with Vexigo, defer or cancel their insertion orders, or terminate their relationship with Vexigo altogether, whether through the actions of their agency representatives or otherwise, Vexigo will be required to compensate for the loss of advertising space or revenue by creating commercial relationships with new suppliers and attracting new customers. If Vexigo is not successful in timely locating quality substitute suppliers or customers, Vexigo’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Vexigo does not have long-term commitments from its advertisers, and it may not be able to retain advertisers or attract new advertisers that provide it with revenue that is comparable to the revenue generated by any advertisers it may lose. Most of Vexigo’s advertisers do business with it by placing insertion orders for particular advertising campaigns. If Vexigo performs well on a particular campaign, the advertiser or, most often, the advertising agency representing the advertiser, may place new insertion orders with it for additional advertising campaigns. Vexigo rarely has any commitment from an advertiser beyond the campaign governed by a particular insertion order. Vexigo’s insertion orders may also be canceled by advertisers or their advertising agencies prior to the completion of the campaign without penalty. As a result, Vexigo’s success is dependent upon its ability to outperform its competitors and win repeat business from existing advertisers, while continually expanding the number of advertisers for whom Vexigo provide services. In addition, it is relatively easy for advertisers and the advertising agencies that represent them to seek an alternative provider for their advertising campaigns because there are no significant switching costs. Agencies, with whom Vexigo does the majority of its business, often have relationships with many different providers, each of whom may be running portions of the same advertising campaign. Because Vexigo generally does not have long-term contracts, it may be difficult for it to accurately predict future revenue streams. Vexigo cannot provide assurance that its current advertisers will continue to use its solutions, or that it will be able to replace departing advertisers with new advertisers that provide it with comparable revenue. If Vexigo fails to detect fraud or serve its advertisers’ advertisements on undesirable mobile and online platforms or if Vexigo sells its advertising space in connection with undesirable advertising campaigns, its reputation will suffer and its brand will be harmed, which would negatively impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. Vexigo’s business depends in part on providing its advertisers with a service that they trust, and Vexigo has contractual commitments to take reasonable measures to prevent advertisers’ advertisements from appearing on undesirable websites, on certain websites that they identify and on websites that are involved in click fraud, bot traffic or similar activities. In addition, Vexigo has contractual commitments to take reasonable measures to prevent undesirable advertising from appearing on the websites that sell the advertising space to Vexigo. Vexigo also uses third-party services in an effort to prevent its advertisers’ advertisements from appearing on undesirable websites or buying fraudulent supply. Preventing and combating fraud requires constant vigilance, and Vexigo may not always be successful in its efforts to do so. In addition, Vexigo may serve advertising on advertising space that is objectionable to its advertisers, and may lose the trust of its advertisers, which would harm its brand and reputation and negatively impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. Vexigo may also purchase advertising space inadvertently that proves to be unacceptable for advertising campaigns, in which case Vexigo is responsible for the cost and cannot bill that cost to any campaign. If Vexigo buys substantial volumes of unusable advertising space, this could negatively impact its results of operations. If mobile connected devices, their operating systems or content distribution channels, including those controlled by Vexigo’s competitors, develop in ways that prevent its advertising campaigns from being delivered to their users, Vexigo’s ability to grow its business will be impaired. Vexigo’s success in the mobile channel arena depends upon the ability of its technology platform to integrate with mobile advertising space suppliers and provide advertising for most mobile connected devices, as well as the major operating systems that run on them and the thousands of applications that are downloaded onto them. The design of mobile devices and operating systems is controlled by third parties with whom Vexigo does not have any formal relationships. These parties frequently introduce new devices, and from time to time they may introduce new operating systems or modify existing ones. Network carriers may also impact the ability to access specified content on mobile devices. If Vexigo’s solution was unable to work on these devices or operating systems, either because of technological constraints or because an operating system or app developer, device maker or carrier wished to impair its ability to purchase advertising space and provide advertisements, Vexigo’s ability to generate revenue could be significantly harmed. 19 Vexigo relies heavily on its IT systems and on third party IT support and systems, including communications lines. If Vexigo fails to maintain adequate security and supporting infrastructure, it may experience Cyber-attacks, outages and disruptions of its services which could harm its brand and reputation and negatively impact its revenue and results of operations. Vexigo relies heavily on IT systems to manage critical functions such as media campaign management and operations, data storage and retrieval, revenue recognition, budgeting, forecasting, financial reporting and other administrative functions. Certain of these IT services are provided by third parties, including communications lines, and certain of Vexigo’s data is stored on third parties’ servers, which exposes Vexigo to additional risks relating to loss of data and security breaches. As Vexigo grows its business, it expects to continue to invest in technology services, hardware and software, including data centers, network services, storage and database technologies. Creating the appropriate support for Vexigo’s technology platform, including Big Data and computational infrastructure, is expensive and complex, and its execution could result in inefficiencies or operational failures and increased vulnerability to cyber-attacks, which, in turn, could diminish the quality of Vexigo’s services and its performance for advertisers. Cyber-attacks could include denial-of-service attacks impacting service availability (including the ability to deliver ads) and reliability; the exploitation of software vulnerabilities in internet facing applications; social engineering of system administrators (tricking company employees into releasing control of their systems to a hacker); or the introduction of computer viruses or malware into Vexigo’s systems with a view to steal confidential or proprietary data. Cyber-attacks of increasing sophistication may be difficult to detect and could result in the theft of Vexigo’s intellectual property and its data or its advertisers’ data. In addition, Vexigo is vulnerable to unintentional errors as well as malicious actions by persons with authorized access to its systems that exceed the scope of their access rights, or unintentionally or intentionally alter parameters or otherwise interfere with the intended operations of its platform. The steps Vexigo takes to increase the reliability, integrity and security of its systems as they scale may be expensive and may not prevent system failures or unintended vulnerabilities resulting from the increasing number of persons with access to its systems, complex interactions within its technology platform and the increasing number of connections with third party partners and vendors’ technology. Operational errors or failures or successful cyber-attacks could result in damage to Vexigo’s reputation and loss of current and new advertisers and other business partners which could harm its business. In addition, Vexigo could be adversely impacted by outages and disruptions in the online platforms of its key business partners, such as the real-time advertising exchanges, which Vexigo relies upon for access to advertising space. Errors or failures in Vexigo’s software and systems could adversely affect its operating results and growth prospects. Vexigo depends upon the sustained and uninterrupted performance of its technology platform to operate over 1,000 campaigns at any given time; manage its advertising space supply; bid on advertising space for each campaign; serve or direct a third party to serve advertising; collect, process and interpret data to optimize campaign performance in real time; and provide billing information to its financial systems. If Vexigo’s technology platform cannot scale to meet demand, or if there are errors in the execution of any of these functions on its platform, then its business could be harmed. Because Vexigo’s software is complex, undetected errors and failures may occur, especially when new versions or updates are made. Vexigo does not have the capability to test new releases or updates to its code on a small subset of campaigns, which means that bugs or errors in code could impact all campaigns on its platform. Despite testing of the optimization platform by Vexigo, errors or bugs in its software may not be found until the software is in its live operating environment. Errors or failures in Vexigo’s software could also result in negative publicity, damage to its brand and reputation, loss of or delay in market acceptance of its solutions, increased costs or loss of revenue, loss of competitive position or claims by advertisers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, Vexigo may be required or choose to expend additional resources to help mitigate any problems resulting from errors in its software. Vexigo may make errors in the measurement of its campaigns causing discrepancies with its advertisers’ measurements leading to a lack in confidence with Vexigo or, on occasion, the need for advertiser “make-goods”, the standard credits given to advertisers for campaigns that have not been delivered properly. Alleviating problems resulting from errors in Vexigo’s software could require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or the cessation of its business, any of which would adversely impact its financial position, results of operations and growth prospects. 20 Vexigo’s proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of its solutions without compensation. Vexigo’s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that it develops or otherwise acquires, so that Vexigo can prevent others from using Vexigo’s inventions and proprietary information. If Vexigo fails to protect its intellectual property rights adequately, its competitors might gain access to its technology, and its business might be adversely affected. Vexigo relies on trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary methods and technologies. Vexigo’s patent strategy is still in its early stages and Vexigo does not have any registered patents and has only one pending application for the registration of a patent. Vexigo generally enters into confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, consultants, vendors and advertisers, and generally limits access to and distribution of its proprietary information. However, Vexigo cannot assure you that any steps taken by it will prevent misappropriation of its technology and proprietary information or infringement of its intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of Vexigo’s technology and intellectual property is difficult. Vexigo’s competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on its brand recognition by using domain names or business names similar to Vexigo’s, and Vexigo may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring or using domain names and other trademarks that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of its brands, trademarks or service marks. Also, despite the steps Vexigo has taken to protect its proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer aspects of Vexigo’s technology or otherwise obtain and use information that it regards as proprietary, or to develop technologies similar or superior to its technology or design around its proprietary rights. Vexigo may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are costly to defend, could require Vexigo to pay significant damages and could limit its ability to use certain technologies and intellectual property. The digital advertising industry is characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in this industry are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Vexigo’s technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Third parties may assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights in proprietary technology against Vexigo for which Vexigo may be liable or have an indemnification obligation. Vexigo cannot assure you that it is not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights. From time to time, Vexigo may be subject to legal proceedings relating to Vexigo’s solutions or underlying technology and the intellectual property rights of others, particularly as it expands the complexity and scope of its business. As a result of the Vexigo Transaction, Vexigo’s business and financial condition may become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. Regardless of whether claims that Vexigo is infringing patents or infringing or misappropriating other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and Vexigo may receive unfavorable interim or preliminary rulings in the course of litigation. There can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. Vexigo may decide to settle lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to it. Some of Vexigo’s competitors have substantially greater resources than Vexigo does and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than Vexigo could. Vexigo’s ability to successfully operate and grow its business depends on the efforts of its key personnel and if such key personnel were to cease working for Vexigo without proper replacement, Vexigo’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Vexigo’s ability to operate and grow its business successfully is highly dependent on the efforts and contribution of its key employees, including Kobi Ram, its chief executive officer, and Amit Reshef, its chief technology officer. Vexigo does not maintain “key person” insurance for these or any other employees. In the event any of these key employees terminates their employment relationship with Vexigo, Vexigo will be required to locate and retain suitable replacements with the requisite knowledge and expertise in Vexigo’s business and understanding of Vexigo’s solutions. Vexigo may not be able to replace these key employees easily or efficiently, and as a result of their departures, Vexigo’s results of operations and business plans could be negatively impacted. 21 Vexigo’s solutions include certain open source software components and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict Vexigo’s ability to use its proprietary software. Vexigo’s platform includes certain software components licensed to Vexigo by third-parties under “open source” licenses. The use of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain requirements that their users make available source code for modifications or derivative works or other compliance requirements. Therefore, if Vexigo combines its proprietary software with open source software subject to certain licenses in a certain manner, it could, under these open source licenses, be required to release the source code of its proprietary software to the public. This would allow Vexigo’s competitors to create similar solutions with less development effort and time and ultimately put Vexigo at a competitive disadvantage. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts at this time, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on Vexigo’s ability to commercialize its services. Moreover, Vexigo cannot guarantee that it will be able to prevent use of certain open source software subject to restrictive licenses or licenses requiring distribution of its software or that in the future the terms of licenses that apply to open source software will be interpreted in ways that will be harmful to Vexigo. If Vexigo fails to observe the terms of the applicable licenses, it may be subject to litigation, to a demand to make its proprietary software available to the public and to restriction on future use of the relevant open source software, any of which could adversely affect Vexigo’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Vexigo believes that it is entitled to Israeli corporate tax benefits that require Vexigo to meet various conditions. This entitlement may not be approved or may be terminated or reduced, all of which could increase the amount of corporate tax payable in Israel. Vexigo believes that it is entitled to benefit from a reduced corporate tax rate under the Israeli privileged enterprise program. Under this program, a portion of Vexigo’s income is subject to reduced corporate tax rates in Israel. In order to become eligible for the tax benefits for “Privileged Enterprises,” Vexigo is required to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The view of the Israeli Tax Authority, or ITA, may be different and Vexigo’s entitlement to the tax benefits can be revoked or reduced with retroactive effect, which would result in adverse tax consequences to Vexigo both for past and future tax years. Further, these tax benefits may be reduced or discontinued in the future and in such case, Vexigo's Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies is 26.5% in 2014 and thereafter. If we fail to manage our growth, our business could be disrupted and our profitability will likely decline. We expect to experience significant growth upon the acquisition of Vexigo through both acquisitions and organic growth. Such growth may significantly strain our management and other operational and financial resources. In particular, headcount growth increases the integration challenges involved in: · recruiting, training and retaining skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; · maintaining high quality standards; · preserving our corporate culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal controls; and · maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support the growth in our operations, and our management may not be able to achieve the execution necessary to exploit the market opportunities for our businesses. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, we may not be profitable. 22 Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares A few of our shareholders are in a position to control matters requiring a shareholder vote. Mr. Chaim Mer, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and his wife, Mrs. Dora Mer, currently beneficially own approximately 23.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares, the Info Group, Inc. (formerly AnchorPoint, Inc.) whose principal shareholder, Mr. Roger Challen, is one of our directors, currently beneficially owns 21.3% of our outstanding shares and Mr. Isaac Ben-Bassat, one of our directors, beneficially owns 7.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, such shareholders control and will continue to control the election of our entire Board of Directors other than our two outside directors and generally have the ability to direct our business and affairs. For as long as such shareholders have a controlling interest in our company, they will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price, especially if these shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares. If the Vexigo Transaction is completed, the holdings of our current principal shareholders will be diluted, but our officers and directors that are currently expected to remain on our Board of Directors and our new directors and officers that will join us after the Closing will own 3,492,707 ordinary shares, or approximately 43.3 percent of our outstanding shares subsequent to the Closing. If we fail to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, our shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “MTSL.” To continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we need to satisfy a number of conditions, including minimum shareholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million and a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. In the past we fell below the minimum $2.5 million shareholders’ equity, and we may not be able to maintain such minimum shareholders’ equity in the future. If we fail to comply with such requirement, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to achieve compliance by meeting the applicable standard for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we are not deemed in compliance before the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, NASDAQ may afford us an additional 180 day compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period we have demonstrated that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on our most recent public filings and market information. In the past, we received notices from NASDAQ stating that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing requirements. Although we regained compliance, we cannot be sure that our shareholders’ equity, share price or minimum market value of publicly held shares will continue to be in compliance with the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or that any appeal of a decision to delist our ordinary shares will be successful. If we are delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares would be conducted on a market where an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of, our ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. As a result of our relatively substantial cash position at this time, we believe that we may be classified as a PFIC in 2014 and future years, including 2015 under a literal application of the asset test described above, which looks solely to the market value of our assets. If we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. For more information please see “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation - Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” 23 Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our ordinary shares; and · general stock market prices and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. We do not expect to distribute cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Law), so long as the company reasonably believes that such dividend distribution will not prevent the company from paying all its current and future debts. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices, production or manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. Vexigo is also based in Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 In recent years, there have been hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza strip, both of which resulted in rockets being fired into Israel causing casualties and disruption of economic activities. Most recently, in July 2014, an armed conflict commenced between Israel and Hamas. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, Iran. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Some of our directors, officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces, as well as some of the employees of Vexigo, and they may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Our financial results may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. We report our financial results in dollars, while a portion of our expenses, primarily salaries, are paid in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. The appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar will result in an increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our NIS expenses. We are also influenced by the timing of, and the extent to which, any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel over the rate of inflation in the United States is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. Our dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In the past, the NIS exchange rate with the dollar and other foreign currencies had fluctuated, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar measured results of operations will be adversely affected. From time to time, we engage in currency-hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our financial position and results of operations. However, any such hedging transaction may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on such results. The government programs and tax benefits we currently participate in or receive require us to meet several conditions. Such programs may be terminated or reduced in the future and restrict our ability to transfer technology outside of Israel. We have benefited from certain Israeli Government grants, programs and tax benefits. In the past, until 2010, we received approvals from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for grants for our research and development projects. While 2011 was the last year for which we applied for a grant (and were denied), any future grant applications may not be approved by the Office of the Chief Scientist. To remain eligible for these grants, programs and tax benefits, we must comply with certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets from our own equity and paying royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products and to transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we do not meet these conditions in the future, the benefits we received could be canceled and we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs or pay increased taxes. The Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs and tax benefits may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. 25 Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, and the assets of most of our directors and officers, are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those Acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult our acquisition by a third-party, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with us or other acquisition of our shares or assets. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer, whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ Stock Market Rules regarding the requirement to maintain a majority of independents directors, the director nomination process and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules regarding the requirement to maintain a majority of independents directors, the director nomination process and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, compensation of officers and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 26 