D. RISK FACTORS INVESTING IN OUR ORDINARY SHARES INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK AND UNCERTAINTY. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE INVESTING IN OUR ORDINARY SHARES. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCURS, OUR BUSINESS, PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE HARMED. IN THAT CASE, THE VALUE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES COULD DECLINE, AND YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND MARKET WE HAVE HAD A RECENT HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE OR SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY IN THE FUTURE. We have incurred operating losses in each of the last five fiscal years and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. To the extent that we continue to incur operating losses, we may not have sufficient working capital to fund our operations in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will be required to obtain additional financing or reduce level of expenditure. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms satisfactory to us. OUR OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to the following: o demand for our products; o changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; o new product announcements by us and our competitors; o the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; o product life cycles; o our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; o changes in the level of our operating expenses; 5 o budgeting cycles of our customers; o customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; o changes in our strategy; o seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; and o currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that our future operating results will be adversely affected by these or other factors. Revenues are also difficult to forecast because the market for telecommunication management and billing solutions is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle for our solutions, from initial evaluation to purchase, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. We typically ship orders for our TABS product line shortly after receipt of a purchase order and, consequently, order backlog at the beginning of any quarter has in the past represented only a small portion of that quarter's revenues. As a result, license revenues from our TABS product line in any quarter depend substantially on orders for TABS products that have been booked and shipped in that quarter. Also, we can not predict whether revenues from our Application Suite will be recognized in any quarter because the delivery and, in some cases, the implementation of all the components of the Application Suite (including among, other things, customer training) are dependent on the customers individual timing requirements, which can delay the completion of these orders. In addition, revenues from our billing solutions are generated by using contract accounting on a percentage of completion method and because the completion pace varies from quarter to quarter and is dependent on different variables that are out of our control, billing solutions revenues in any quarter depend on our customers' operational plans, which can delay our ability to progress and complete the projects. Due to all of the foregoing, we cannot predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon them as indications of future performance. Our revenues declined in 2006 and we may not be able to achieve or sustain revenue growth in the future. OUR QUARTERLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE VARIES SIGNIFICANTLY. We have often recognized a substantial portion of our revenues in the last quarter of the year and in the last month, or even weeks or days, of a quarter. Our expense levels are substantially based on our expectations for future revenues and are therefore relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. Our operating results are generally not characterized by a seasonal pattern, except that our sales in Europe are generally lower in the summer months. Due to the foregoing, our quarterly financial performance has in the past and may in the future vary significantly. Our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. In some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be materially and adversely affected. 6 WE DERIVE THE MAJORITY OF OUR REVENUES FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPENSE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS, THE MARKET FOR WHICH HAS DECLINED IN RECENT YEARS. Until 2005, we derived substantially all of our revenues from our TABS.IT call accounting and billing products. In late 2004, we implemented a new strategy that has led to the development and introduction of our Application Suite. The Application Suite is built on the Microsoft.Net platform and establishes a framework for us to provide customized solutions that include customer care and billing in addition to our traditional telecommunications expense management , or TEM, solutions. The main functions of our TABS.IT and prior WinTrak families of products were incorporated into the Application Suite. In 2005, we expanded and enhanced the functionality of the Application Suite to include invoice management, which facilitates bill reconciliation and dispute management. In July 2006, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of TelSoft Solutions, Inc., or TelSoft, a California-based provider of call accounting and TEM solutions. Despite all of the foregoing, our revenues from our TEM solutions declined each year from 1999 until 2003 and again in 2006 and revenues for these products may not grow in the future. If the market for our TEM solutions fails to grow in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our future financial performance will be dependent to a substantial degree on the successful introduction, marketing and customer acceptance of our invoice management products. WE DEPEND ON BUSINESS TELEPHONE SYSTEM MANUFACTURERS, VENDORS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR OUR SALES. One of the primary distribution channels for our call accounting management products are private branch exchange, or PBX, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and vendors who market our products to end-users in conjunction with their own products. We are highly dependent upon the active marketing and distribution efforts of our PBX OEMs. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our three major OEMs, Siemens Gmbh, Philips Communications Systems B.V. and Ericsson, generated together 47.0%, 42.0% and 34.0%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. The following percentage of sales were attributable to each of these OEMs in each of the 12 months ended December 31: 2004 2005 2006 ---- ---- ---- Siemens 38.0% 36.0% 29.0% Philips 5.0% 4.0% 4.0% Ericsson 4.0% 2.0% 1.0% As these and other PBX vendors expand their product offerings to offer a wider range of newer technologies such as the Internet, Wireless Fidelity, or WiFi, and voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, we have enhanced our Application Suite to accommodate these new services. In late 2004 and early 2005, we entered into partnership agreements with each of NEC Unified Solutions, Inc. and Avaya Inc. for the integration of our products with their own products and the marketing of our integrated product. Sales of call accounting solutions by PBX manufacturers and vendors have declined markedly in the recent past, and sales through this channel may not recover. Our success will be dependent to a substantial degree on the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties in marketing and integrating our products. These third parties may not give priority to the sale of our products as an enhancement to their products. Although most of the major business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors currently rely on third-party suppliers to provide call accounting and other telemanagement products, these manufacturers and vendors, including our current customers, may develop their own competing products or purchase competing products from others. Because we sell our products through local master distributors in countries where we do not have a marketing subsidiary, we are highly dependent upon the active marketing and distribution efforts of our distributors. We also depend in large part upon our distributors for product maintenance and support. Our distributors may not continue to provide adequate maintenance and support to end-users or provide maintenance and support for new products, which might cause us to seek new or additional distributors or incur additional service and support costs. The distributors to whom we sell our products are generally not contractually required to make future purchases of our products and could, therefore, discontinue carrying our products at any time. None of our distributors or resellers is subject to any minimum purchase requirements under their agreements with us. We may not be able to continue our relationships with our OEM customers or, if such relationships are not maintained, we may not be able to attract and retain comparable PBX original equipment manufacturers. The loss of any of our major reseller or OEM relationships, either to competitive products offered by other companies or products developed by such resellers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional PBX manufacturers and vendors that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. 7 IN DECEMBER 2004, WE ACQUIRED CERTAIN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF TELEKNOWLEDGE GROUP LTD. AND ON JULY 31, 2006, WE ACQUIRED CERTAIN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF TELSOFT SOLUTIONS, INC. AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXPLOIT THE ACQUIRED PRODUCTS. In December 2004, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Teleknowledge Group Ltd., or Teleknowledge, a provider of carrier class billing and related solutions, and on July 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of TelSoft, a California corporation, a provider of call accounting and TEM solutions. The acquisition of the Teleknowledge billing solution enables us to offer an end-to-end customer care and billing solution, including pre/post paid billing, web self-care, assets management, partner management, help desk and order management modules. These products offer a complementary solution to our own products. We believe that the acquisition of TelSoft's TEM and call accounting software will enable us to expand our TEM solutions and will assist us to strengthen our growing business in the United States. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of Teleknowledge and TelSoft into our business or successfully exploit the solutions that we acquired from them. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EXPANDING AND MAINTAINING OUR DISTRIBUTION NETWORK. We sell our products through distributors, business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors, post, telephone and telegraph authorities, or PTTs and our direct sales force. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with business telephone switching systems manufacturers and vendors and PTTs, and establishing and maintaining relationships with distributors. Historically, we have at times experienced difficulty in establishing effective distribution relationships. We may not be able to successfully expand our distribution channels or any such expansion may not result in an increase in revenues. The failure to expand or maintain our distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. We are based in Israel and generate a large percentage of our sales outside the United States. Our sales in the United States accounted for 53.0%, 52.0% and 51.1% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. International operations are subject to inherent risks, including the following: o the impact of possible recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; o costs of localizing products for foreign markets; o longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; o unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; o difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; 8 o reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; o potentially adverse tax consequences; and o political and economic instability. Our distributors or resellers may not be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or the foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While our revenues are generally denominated in U.S. dollars and Euro, a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in NIS. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. If we were to determine that it was in our best interests to enter into any hedging transactions in the future, we may not be able to do so or such transactions, if entered into, may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. In addition, if, for any reason, exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies into NIS were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. Currency fluctuations in the future may have a material adverse effect on revenues from international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATING TO PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND RISKS OF INFRINGEMENT. We are dependent upon our proprietary software technology and we rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We try to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of our products, and we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate or our competition may independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that we are infringing upon any proprietary rights of third parties. However, it is possible, that third parties will claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. We believe that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. It would be time consuming for us to defend any such claims, with or without merit, and any such claims could: o result in costly litigation; o divert management's attention and resources; o cause product shipment delays; or o require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of product infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We rely upon certain software that we license from third parties, including software that we integrate with our internally developed software. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If we lose or are unable to maintain any such software licenses, we could suffer shipment delays or reductions until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN OUR DEFENSE OF PENDING LITIGATION. In April 2000, the tax authorities in Israel issued a demand for a tax payment for the 1997-1999 period in the amount of approximately NIS 6.0 million ($1.4 million). We have appealed to the Israeli District Court in respect of such tax demand and believe that certain defenses can be raised against the demand of the tax authorities. We have made a provision in our financial statements for this tax demand for the amount deemed probable. If we are unsuccessful in these matters or if actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments, we may be exposed to losses that could be material to our company. OUR RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY COMPETITION. The market for telemanagement products and invoice management solutions is fragmented and is intensely competitive. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, depth of product line, technical support and price. We compete both with international and local competitors (including providers of telecommunications services), many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We anticipate continuing competition in the telemanagement products and invoice management solution market and the entrance of new competitors into the market. Our existing and potential customers, including business telephone switching system manufacturers and vendors, may be able to develop telemanagement products and services that are as effective as, or more effective or easier to use than, those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise and distribution channels. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and that competition may have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH NEW VERSIONS AND NEW PRODUCTS. The information and telecommunication service providers market in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, introductions of new products, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with the technological developments and to timely address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and new telecommunication technologies and services and by developing and introducing enhancements to our current and new products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products that will respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of such enhancements or such enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve any significant degrees of market acceptance. If release dates of any new products or enhancements are delayed or, if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new product offerings or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of current versions of our product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN OR ATTRACT KEY MANAGERIAL, TECHNICAL AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PERSONNEL WE NEED TO SUCCEED. Our success has largely depended and will depend in the future on our skilled professional and technical employees. The competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our present employees, or recruit additional qualified employees as we require them. The loss of any key member of our management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives. Our ability to replace key members of our management team and hire additional skilled personnel in the future might be negatively impacted by the use of restrictive covenants in our industry and market. Any failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical and research and development personnel could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales, deploy our products or successfully develop new products and enhancements. THREE OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS ARE IN A POSITION TO CONTROL MATTERS REQUIRING A SHAREHOLDER VOTE. Mr. Chaim Mer, our Chairman, and his wife, Dora Mer, our Israeli counsel, currently control the vote of approximately 35.05% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and Isaac Ben-Bassat, one of our directors, is the owner of 11.94% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, such persons control and will continue to control the election of our entire Board of Directors other than our two outside directors and generally have the ability to direct our business and affairs. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ARISING FROM PRODUCT DEFECTS AND POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY. We provide free warranty and support for up to one year for end-users and up to 15 months for our OEM distributors. Our sales agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability or related claims. The limitation of liability provisions contained in our agreements may not be effective. Our products are used by businesses to reduce communication costs, recover charges payable by third parties, prevent abuse and misuse of telephone networks and converged BSS solutions for ITSPs, and as a result, the sale of products by us may entail the risk of product liability and related claims. A product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Products such as those offered by us may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our testing and testing by current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of these errors could result in adverse publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance or claims by customers against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR ORDINARY SHARES WE MAY IN THE FUTURE BE CLASSIFIED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY, OR PFIC, WHICH WILL SUBJECT OUR U.S. INVESTORS TO ADVERSE TAX RULES. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we may become a passive foreign investment company, commonly referred to as PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. Federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset, which produces passive income. As a result of our relatively substantial cash position at the time, we believe that we were a PFIC in certain periods over the last few years under a literal application of the asset test described above, which looks solely to the market value of our assets. We do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2006. If we are classified in the future as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. OUR SHARE PRICE HAS BEEN VOLATILE IN THE PAST AND MAY DECLINE IN THE FUTURE. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: o quarterly variations in our operating results; 11 o operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; o changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by investors; o announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; o announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; o announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; o changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; o additions or departures of key personnel; o future sales of our ordinary shares; and o general stock market prices and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. WE DO NOT EXPECT TO DISTRIBUTE CASH DIVIDENDS. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Law), so long as the company reasonably believes that such dividend distribution will not prevent the company from paying all its current and future debts. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REGULATIONS COULD INCREASE THE COST OF OUR OPERATIONS. As a result of changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, the costs of being a public company in general have increased in recent years. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires changes in some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure or compliance practices. We expect that the on-going implementation of these regulations will further increase our legal compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result of such developments. In connection with our future implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which governs internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we have expended and will need to further expend significant management time and financial resources to comply with the applicable requirements. This and other proposed legislation may increase the fees of our professional advisors and our insurance premiums. 12 RISKS RELATING TO OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN ISRAEL ENTAILS SPECIAL RISKS. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2006. In July 2006, an armed conflict began between Israel and Hezbollah forces in Lebanon, which involved rocket attacks on populated areas in the northern parts of Israel. On August 14, 2006, a cease-fire between Hezbollah and Israel took effect. This situation has had an adverse effect on Israel's economy, primarily in the geographical areas directly harmed by this conflict. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area's problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel's economic development or our operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY THE OBLIGATION OF OUR PERSONNEL TO PERFORM MILITARY SERVICE. Many of our directors, officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INFLATION AND CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS. Since we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies may affect our results of operations. A significant amount of our expenses are paid in NIS (primarily salaries) and are influenced by the timing of, and the extent to which, any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel over the rate of inflation in the United States is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. Our dollar costs in Israel will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. Over time, the NIS has been devalued against the dollar, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Likewise, our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. 13 THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND TAX BENEFITS WE CURRENTLY PARTICIPATE IN OR RECEIVE REQUIRE US TO MEET SEVERAL CONDITIONS AND MAY BE TERMINATED OR REDUCED IN THE FUTURE. We have benefited from certain Israeli Government grants, programs and tax benefits. In late 2005 and early 2006 and 2007, we applied to the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for grants for our research and development projects. We received an approval for the 2005 and 2006 applications and our two 2007 applications are currently pending. The 2007 grant applications may not be approved by the Office of the Chief Scientist and we may not be able to obtain any such grants in the future. To remain eligible for these grants, programs and tax benefits, we must comply with certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets from our own equity and paying royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products and to transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we do not meet these conditions in the future, the benefits we received could be canceled and we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs or pay increased taxes. The Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs and tax benefits may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. SERVICE AND ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL PROCESS ON US AND OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS MAY BE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, most of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those Acts. PROVISIONS OF ISRAELI LAW MAY DELAY, PREVENT OR MAKE DIFFICULT OUR ACQUISITION BY A THIRD-PARTY, WHICH COULD PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL AND THEREFORE DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS ARE GOVERNED BY ISRAELI LAW AND DIFFER IN SOME RESPECTS FROM THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF SHAREHOLDERS UNDER U.S. LAW. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 14 AS A FOREIGN PRIVATE ISSUER WHOSE SHARES ARE LISTED ON THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET, WE MAY FOLLOW CERTAIN HOME COUNTRY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES INSTEAD OF CERTAIN NASDAQ REQUIREMENTS. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including the composition of our Board of Directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum at shareholders meetings. In addition, we may follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of our company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in our company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Currently, we follow Israeli law and practice instead of the NASDAQ requirements with respect to the directors' nomination process. 