ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also materially and adversely impair our business operations. The value of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business Various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is sufficient to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. We continue to monitor the adequacy of our loan loss allowance and may need to increase it if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income or an increase in net loss and a reduction in capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in certain markets which could result in increased credit risk. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix metropolitan areas. The regional economic conditions in areas where we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Our loan portfolio mix, which has a concentration of loans secured by real estate, could result in increased credit risk. A significant portion of our portfolio is secured by real estate and thus we have a high degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. If real estate values continue to decline further in our markets, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans where the primary reliance for repayment is on the real estate collateral by foreclosing and selling that real estate would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, because Kansas is a judicial foreclosure state, all foreclosures must be processed through the Kansas state courts. Due to this process, it takes approximately one year for us to foreclose on real estate collateral located in the State of Kansas. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans secured by Kansas property may be delayed and our recovery efforts are lengthened due to this process. 6 Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downtown, our failure to remain well capitalized, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwi de credit markets deteriorates. We believe the level of liquid assets at the Bank is sufficient to meet our current and anticipated funding needs. In addition, we believe our current level of cash at the holding company will be sufficient to meet all projected cash needs in 2011. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume. If our business does not perform well, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. As of December 31, 2010, the Company did not carry a valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset balance of $16.1 million. Future facts and circumstances may require a valuation allowance. Charges to establish a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. If the Bank incurs losses that erode its capital, it may become subject to enhanced regulation or supervisory action. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the Missouri Division of Finance and the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as insurer of the Bank’s deposits, have authority to compel or restrict certain actions if the Bank’s capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of future operating losses, or if its bank regulators determine that it has insufficient capital. Among other matters, the corrective actions include but are not limited to requiring affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; directing an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios; restricting the Bank’s operations; limiting the rate of interest it may pay on brokered deposits; restricting the amount of distributions and dividends and payment of interest on its trust preferred securities; requiring the Bank to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices; removing officers and directors and assessing civil monetary penalties; and taking possession and closing and liquidating the Bank. See “Supervision and Regulation”. Changes in government regulation and supervision may increase our costs. Our operations are subject to extensive regulations by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. We are now also subject to supervision, regulation and investigation by the U.S. Treasury and the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) by virtue of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums might adversely impact our earnings. In 2009, the FDIC charged a “special assessment” on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital. Our special assessment amounted to $$1.1 million. In 2009, the FDIC also raised our annual assessment rate by 9.11 basis points to an average of 15.43 basis points. Our average annual assessment rate in 2010 was 15.48 basis points. It is possible that the FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future or further increase our annual assessment, which could adversely affect our earnings. 7 We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different institutions and counterparties, and execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including federal home loan banks, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems in prior years and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, which could negatively affect our business and earnings. Our earnings, financial condition, and prospects after a merger or acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired company. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. We periodically evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book value, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, reimbursements of losses from the FDIC, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, to the extent that we issue capital stock in c onnection with transactions, such transactions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share of our common stock and share ownership of our stockholders. Loss of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. Although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of our market, business relationships and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Pursuant to our participation in the CPP, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to our participation in the CPP. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers, although certain restrictions apply to as many as twenty-five (25) of our most highly compensated employees. The restrictions severely limit the amount and types of compensation we can pay our executive officers and key employees, including a complete prohibition on any severance or other compensation upon termination of employment, significant caps on bonuses and retention payments. Such restrictions may impede our ability to attract and retain skilled people in our top management ranks. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to support any additional provisions for loan losses and loan charge-offs, to maintain our capital ratios or for a number of other reasons. The condition of the financial markets may be such that we may not be able to obtain additional capital or the additional capital may only be available on terms that are not attractive to us. 8 Risks Associated With Our Shares Our share price can be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than for many other publicly traded companies. As a result of these factors, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. An investment in our common stock is not a savings account, deposit or other obligation of our bank subsidiary, any non-bank subsidiary or any other bank, and are not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations and depends primarily on the Bank’s ability to distribute funds to us, which is also limited by various statutes and regulations. Enterprise depends on payments from the Bank, including dividends, management fees and payments under tax sharing agreements, for substantially all of its revenue. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends and the amount of payments that the Bank may make to Enterprise under tax sharing agreements. In certain circumstances, the Missouri Division of Finance, FDIC or Federal Reserve could restrict or prohibit the Bank from distributing dividends or making other payments to us. In the event that the Bank was restricted from paying dividends to Enterprise or make payments under the tax sharing agreement, Enterprise may not be able to service its debt, pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock or pay dividends on its common stock. If we are unable or determine not to pay dividends on our common stock, the market price of the common stock could be materially adversely affected. The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock provide that prior to the earlier of (i) December 19, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.0525 per share per quarter or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six or more quarters (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have voting rights in certain circumstances. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the rights to elect directors as described above, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have voting rights in certain circumstances. So long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. 9 There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The Company’s board of directors has broad discretion regarding the type and price of such securities. A variety of factors, including financial market conditions, may influence the timing of any such issuance. To allow us to timely respond to opportunities to raise capital, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 which became effective on July 1, 2009. Under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, we have until July 1, 2012 to issue securities pursuant to this registration statement. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. Holders of our common stock do not have anti-dilution or preemptive rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (“DGCL”), the Company’s certificate of incorporation (as amended and together with all certificates of designations) or by-laws. Shares of our common stock are not redeemable and have no subscription or conversion rights. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock could be diluted to the extent the CPP Warrant is exercised for up to 324,074 shares of our common stock. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the CPP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the CPP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the CPP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our employee stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock could incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The terms of the CPP Warrant include an anti-dilution adjustment, which provides that, if we issue common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable, or exchangeable for, common stock at a price that is less than ninety percent (90%) of the market price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date we agree to sell such shares, the number of shares of our common stock to be issued would increase and the per share price of the common stock to be purchased pursuant to the warrant would decrease. We have outstanding subordinated debentures issued to statutory trust subsidiaries, which have issued and sold preferred securities to investors. If we are unable to make payments on any of our subordinated debentures for more than twenty (20) consecutive quarters, we would be in default under the governing agreements for such securities and the amounts due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Additionally, if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures (which will be used to make distributions on the trust preferred securities), or if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures, or if any other event of default occurs, then we generally will be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of our capital securities, including the common stock, during the next succeeding interest payment period applicable to any of the subordinated debentures, or next succeeding interest payment period, as the case may be. Moreover, any other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the common stock. In the event that our existing or future financing agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. In addition, if we are unable or determine not to pay interest on our subordinated debentures, the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws, as well as various provisions of federal and Missouri state law applicable to bank and bank holding companies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In the event of a proposed merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company, our board of directors would have the ability to readily issue availab le shares of preferred stock as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such issuance could occur whether or not our stockholders favorably view the merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of its authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. 10 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS Not applicable. 