Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or our ability to pay distributions at the current rate could be materially adversely affected by the conditions below. The risk factors may have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual operating and financial results and could cause such results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should not consider this list exhaustive. New risk factors emerge periodically, and we cannot completely assure you that the factors described above list all material risks to us at any specific point in time. We have disclosed many of the important risk factors below in our previous filings with the SEC. Future results may be affected by risks and uncertainties including the following: The current financial and economic crisis could adversely affect our business. The full magnitude, effects and duration of the current financial and economic crisis cannot be predicted. At present, its effects on our business have been somewhat limited, primarily in that it has become very difficult to obtain financing for the sale-leaseback transactions we enter into on behalf of our managed funds. In addition, a number of tenants of those funds have experienced increased levels of financial distress, with several recently having filed for bankruptcy protection. Also, the CPA® REITs are experiencing higher levels of redemption requests by shareholders than in the past. Depending on how long and how severe this crisis is, we could in the future experience a number of additional effects on our business, including higher levels of default in the payment of rent by our tenants, additional bankruptcies, and impairments in the value of our property investments, as well as difficulties in refinancing existing loans as they come due. Any of these conditions may negatively affect our earnings, as well as our cash flow and, consequently, our ability to sustain the payment of dividends at current levels. Our managed funds may also be adversely affected by these conditions, and their earnings or cash flow may also be adversely affected by other events, such as increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies in which they receive rent, as well as the need to expend cash to fund increased redemptions; additionally, the ability of CPA®:17 – Global to make new investments will be affected by the availability of financing as well as its ability to raise new funds. Decreases in the value of the assets held by the CPA® REITs will affect the asset management revenues payable to us, as well as the value of the stock we hold in the REITs, and decreases in these funds’ earnings or ability to pay dividends may also affect their ability to make the payments due to us, as well as our income and cash flow from CPA® REIT dividend payments. Earnings from our investment management operations are subject to volatility. Growth in revenue from our investment management operations is dependent in large part on future capital raising in existing or future managed entities, as well as on our ability to make investments that meet the investment criteria of these entities, both of which are subject to uncertainty, including with respect to capital market and real estate market conditions. This uncertainty creates more volatility in our earnings because of the resulting increased volatility in transaction based revenue from our investment management operations. Asset management revenue may be affected by factors that include not only our ability to increase the CPA® REITs’ portfolio of properties under management, but also changes in valuation of those properties, as well as sales (through planned liquidation or otherwise) of CPA® REIT properties. In addition, revenue from our investment management operations, including our ability to earn performance revenue, as well as the value of our holdings of CPA® REIT interests and dividend income from those interests, may be significantly affected by the results of operations of the CPA® REITs. Each of the CPA® REITs has invested substantially all of its assets (other than short-term investments) in triple-net leased properties substantially similar to those we hold, and consequently the results of operations of, and cash available for distribution by, each of the CPA® REITs, is likely to be substantially affected by the same market conditions, and subject to the same risk factors, as the properties we own. Four of the sixteen CPA® funds temporarily reduced the rate of distributions to their investors as a result of adverse developments involving tenants. Each of the CPA® REITs we currently advise and manage may incur significant debt. This significant debt load could restrict their ability to pay revenue owed to us when due, due to either liquidity problems or restrictive covenants contained in their borrowing agreements. In addition, the revenue payable under each of our current investment advisory agreements is subject to a variable annual cap based on a formula tied to the assets and income of that CPA® REIT. This cap may limit the growth of our management revenue. Furthermore, our ability to earn revenue related to the disposition of properties is primarily tied to providing liquidity events for CPA® REIT investors. Our ability to provide that liquidity, and to do so under circumstances that will satisfy the applicable subordination requirements, will depend on market conditions at the relevant time, which may vary considerably over a period of years. In any case, W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 12 Table of Contents liquidity events typically occur several years apart, and our investment management operations income is likely to be significantly higher in those years in which such events occur. The inability of a tenant in a single tenant property to pay rent will reduce our revenues. Most of our properties are occupied by a single tenant and, therefore, the success of our investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants negatively impact our net income and reduce the amounts available for distributions to shareholders. As our tenants generally may not have a recognized credit rating, they may have a higher risk of lease defaults than if our tenants had a recognized credit rating. In addition, the bankruptcy of a tenant could cause the loss of lease payments as well as an increase in the costs incurred to carry the property. We have had tenants file for bankruptcy protection. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting the investment and re-leasing the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. We depend on major tenants. Revenues from several of our tenants and/or their guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our lease revenues. Our five largest tenants/guarantors represented approximately 31%, 29% and 31% of total lease revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of these tenants could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenues from these tenants and/or result in vacancies in the respective properties, which would reduce our revenues at least until the affected property is re-leased, and could decrease the ultimate sale value of each such property. We may recognize substantial impairment charges on our properties. Historically, we have incurred substantial impairment charges, which we are required to recognize whenever we sell a property for less than its carrying value or we determine that the property has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in its carrying value (or, for direct financing leases, that the unguaranteed residual value of the underlying property has declined). By their nature, the timing or extent of impairment charges are not predictable. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which may reduce our net income, although it will not necessarily affect our cash flow from operations. Deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to finance or refinance investments and the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations, which could affect our ability to make distributions. Credit markets, both domestically and internationally, have experienced substantial contraction in recent periods. This deterioration has been particularly severe in the real estate lending sector, where available liquidity, including through collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) and other securitizations, remains depressed as of the date of this filing. While our investment portfolio does not include investments in residential mortgage loans or in CDOs backed by residential mortgage loans, the continued reduction in available financing for real-estate related investments may impact our financial condition by increasing our cost of borrowing, reducing our overall leverage (which may reduce our returns on investment) and making it more difficult for us to obtain financing on future acquisitions or to refinance existing debt. These effects could in turn adversely affect our ability to make distributions. In addition, the creditworthiness of our tenants may be adversely affected if their assets include investments in CDOs and residential mortgage loans, or if they have difficulty obtaining financing to fund their business operations. Any such effects could adversely impact our tenants’ ability to meet their ongoing lease obligations to us, which could in turn adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The revenue streams from the investment advisory agreements with the CPA® REITs are subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which we provide investment advisory services may generally be terminated by each CPA® REIT upon 60 days’ notice, with or without cause. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be terminated. A termination without cause may, however, entitle us to termination revenue, equal to 15% of the amount by which the net fair value of the relevant CPA® REIT’s assets exceeds the remaining amount necessary to provide investors with total distributions equal to their investment plus a preferred return. (In the case of CPA®:17 – Global, that entity has the right, but not the obligation, upon certain terminations to repurchase our interests in its operating partnership at fair market value. If such right is not exercised, we would remain as a limited partner of the operating partnership.) Nonetheless, any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 13 Table of Contents Changes in investor preferences or market conditions could limit our ability to raise funds or make new investments. Substantially all of our and the CPA® REITs’ current investments, as well as the majority of the investments we expect to originate for the CPA® REITs in 2009, are investments in single-tenant commercial properties that are subject to triple-net leases. In addition, we have relied predominantly on raising funds from individual investors through the sale by participating selected dealers to their customers of publicly-registered, non-traded securities of the CPA® REITs. Our recent fund raising efforts have primarily been through one major selected dealer. If, as a result of changes in market receptivity to investments that are not readily liquid and involve high selected dealer fees, or for other reasons, this capital raising method were to become less available as a source of capital, our ability to raise funds for CPA® REIT programs, and consequently our ability to make investments on their behalf, could be adversely affected. While we are not limited to this particular method of raising funds for investment (and, among other things, the CPA® REITs may themselves be able to borrow additional funds to invest), our experience with other means of raising capital is limited. Also, many factors, including changes in tax laws or accounting rules, may make these types of investments less attractive to potential sellers and lessees, which could negatively affect our ability to increase the amount of assets of this type under management. A substantial amount of our leases will expire within the next three years. Within the next three years, approximately 38% of our leases are due to expire. If these leases are not renewed, or if the properties cannot be re-leased on terms that yield payments comparable to those currently being received, then our lease revenues could be substantially adversely affected. The terms of any new or renewed leases of these properties may depend on market conditions prevailing at the time of lease expiration. In addition, if properties are vacated by the current tenants, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to re-lease such properties. We may also seek to sell these properties, in which event we may incur losses, depending upon market conditions prevailing at the time of sale. Our use of debt to finance investments could adversely affect our cash flow. Most of our investments are made by borrowing a portion of the total investment and securing the loan with a mortgage on the property. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which in turn could cause the value of our portfolio, and revenues available for distribution to our shareholders, to be reduced. We generally borrow on a non- recourse basis to limit our exposure on any property to the amount of equity invested in the property. Some of our financing may also require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make balloon payments on debt will depend upon our ability either to refinance the obligation when due, invest additional equity in the property or to sell the related property. When the balloon payment is due, we may be unable to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available mortgage rates, our equity in the mortgaged properties, our financial condition, the operating history of the mortgaged properties and tax laws. A refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to shareholders. We face active competition. In raising funds for investment by the CPA® REITs, we face competition from other funds with similar investment objectives that seek to raise funds from investors through publicly registered, non-traded funds, publicly-traded funds, or private funds. This competition, as well as any change in the attractiveness to investors of an investment in the type of property principally held by the CPA® REITs, relative to other types of investments, could adversely affect our ability to raise funds for future investments, which in turn could ultimately reduce, or limit the growth of, revenues from our investment management operations. As a result of the continued deterioration in the credit and real estate financing markets, we believe there has been a recent decrease in the level of competition for the acquisition of office and industrial properties net leased to major corporations both domestically and internationally. Historically, however, we have faced active competition from many sources, including insurance companies, credit companies, pension funds, private individuals, financial institutions, finance companies and investment companies. We have also faced competition from institutions that provide or arrange for other types of commercial financing through private or public offerings of equity or debt or traditional bank financings. These institutions may accept greater risk or lower returns, allowing them to offer more attractive terms to prospective tenants. In addition, our evaluation of the acceptability of rates of return on behalf of the CPA® REITs is affected by such factors as the cost of raising capital, the amount of revenue we can earn and the performance hurdle rates of the relevant CPA® REITs. Thus, the effect of the cost of raising capital and the revenue we can earn may be to limit the amount of new investments we make on behalf of the CPA® REITs, which will in turn limit the growth of revenues from our investment management operations. W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 14 Table of Contents We and Carey Financial, LLC (“Carey Financial”) have settled an SEC investigation. If other actions are brought against us or Carey Financial, we could be adversely affected. As previously disclosed, we and Carey Financial, our wholly-owned broker-dealer subsidiary, have settled all matters relating to an investigation by the SEC of us and Carey Financial, including matters relating to payments by certain CPA® REITs during 2000-2003 to broker-dealers that distributed their shares. Under the settlement, we were required to cause payments to be made to the affected CPA® REITs of approximately $20 million and paid a civil monetary penalty of $10 million. Also, in connection with implementing the settlement, a federal court injunction has been entered against us and Carey Financial enjoining us from violating a number of provisions of the federal securities laws. Any further violation of these laws by us or Carey Financial could result in civil remedies, including sanctions, fines and penalties, which may be more severe than if the violation had occurred without the injunction being in place. Additionally, if we or Carey Financial breaches the terms of the injunction, the SEC may petition the court to vacate the settlement and restore the SEC’s original action to the active docket for all purposes. The settlement is not binding on other regulatory authorities, including FINRA, which regulates Carey Financial, state securities regulators, or other regulatory organizations, which may seek to commence proceedings or take action against us or our affiliates on the basis of the settlement or otherwise. As reported in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” the Maryland Securities Commission and the Alabama Securities Commission have each sought information from Carey Financial and/or CPA®:15 relating to matters that were also the subject of the SEC investigation. Certain participants in a dividend reinvestment plan may have rescission rights with respect to certain shares acquired under that plan. As a result of changes in the securities laws, our registration statement covering offers and sales of securities under a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) expired as of November 30, 2008. Since that date, the acquisition of shares under the DRIP by plan participants may have been subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and may not have qualified for an available exemption from such requirements. The failure to renew the registration statement prior to its expiration was inadvertent and we believe that participants who purchased shares subsequent to the expiration of the registration statement had access to the same information they would have had had a new registration statement been filed. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of such shares because the plan administrator acquired the shares on the open market. Nevertheless, if the acquisition of shares under the DRIP by plan participants after November 30, 2008 was subject to registration under the Securities Act and no exemption from the registration requirements was available, affected participants would have certain rescission rights. An investor who successfully asserts a rescission right during the applicable time period has the right to require the issuer to repurchase the shares acquired by the investor at the price the investor paid plus interest from the date of acquisition. These rights may apply to up to approximately 23,000 shares acquired pursuant to the DRIP since November 30, 2008. We are currently exploring various options related to this matter, including the possibility of conducting a rescission offer for affected participants. The failure of Carey REIT II, our real estate subsidiary, to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions. If Carey REIT II, our wholly owned REIT subsidiary formed in 2007 (Note 2), fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income in our real estate subsidiary at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment of Carey REIT II as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year Carey REIT II lost its REIT qualification. Losing the REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability, and we would no longer be required to make distributions from the real estate subsidiary. We might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify our real estate subsidiary as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets and the sources of our gross income. Also, our real estate subsidiary must make distributions to its shareholders (primarily us) aggregating annually at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify our real estate subsidiary as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may take the position that specific sale-leaseback transactions we will treat as true leases are not true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes but are, instead, financing arrangements or loans. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the qualification requirements applicable to REITs. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect our stockholders and us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders or us. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates the tax laws applicable to our stockholders or us may be changed. Our sale-leaseback agreements may permit tenants to purchase a property at a predetermined price, which could limit our realization of any appreciation or result in a loss. In some circumstances, we grant tenants a right to repurchase the property they lease from us. The purchase price may be a predetermined fixed price or based on the market value at the time of exercise, or it may be based on a formula. If a tenant exercises its right to purchase the property and the property’s market value has increased beyond that price, we could be limited in fully realizing the appreciation on that property. Additionally, if the price at which the tenant can purchase the property is less than our purchase price or carrying value (for example, where the purchase price is based on an appraised value), we may incur a loss. W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 15 Table of Contents Investments in properties outside of the United States subject us to foreign currency risks, which may adversely affect distributions. We are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We attempt to mitigate a portion of the risk of currency fluctuation by financing our properties in local currencies. Changes in the relation of any such foreign currency to U.S. dollars may affect our revenues, operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and the amount of shareholders’ equity International investments involve additional risks. We have invested in and may continue to invest in properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors particular to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. These investments may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States, including: – Changing governmental rules and policies; – Enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of property and laws relating to the ability of foreign entities to remove invested capital or profits earned from activities within the country to the United States; – Expropriation; – Legal systems under which the ability to enforce contractual rights and remedies may be more limited than would be the case under U.S. law; – The difficulty in conforming obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; – Adverse market conditions caused by changes in national or local economic or political conditions; – Tax requirements vary by country and we may be subject to additional taxes as a result of our international investments; – Changes in relative interest rates; – Changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; – Changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; – Changes in land use and zoning laws; and – More stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws. In addition, the lack of available information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America could impair our ability to analyze transactions and may cause us to forego an investment opportunity. It may also impair our ability to receive timely and accurate financial information from tenants necessary to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies. Also, we may rely on third-party asset managers in international jurisdictions to monitor compliance with legal requirements and lending agreements with respect to properties we own or manage on behalf of the CPA® REITs. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may expose us or our operating subsidiaries to additional liabilities. We may have difficulty re-leasing or selling our properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid compared to most financial assets and this illiquidity will limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The net leases we may enter into or acquire may be for properties that are specially suited to the particular needs of the tenant. With these properties, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property or to make rent concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In addition, if we are forced to sell the property, it may be difficult to sell to a party other than the tenant due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed. These and other limitations, such as a property’s location and/or local economic conditions, may affect our ability to release or sell properties without adversely affecting returns to shareholders. See “Our Portfolio” above for scheduled lease expirations. We do not fully control the management of our properties. The tenants or managers of net lease properties are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of the properties. If a property is not adequately maintained in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease, we may incur expenses for deferred maintenance expenditures or other liabilities once the property becomes free of the lease. While our leases generally provide for recourse against the tenant in these instances, a bankrupt or financially troubled tenant may be more likely to defer maintenance and it may be more difficult to enforce remedies against such a tenant. In addition, to the extent tenants are unable to conduct their operation of the property on a financially successful basis, their ability to pay rent may be adversely affected. Although we endeavor to monitor, on an ongoing basis, compliance by tenants with their lease obligations and other factors that could affect the financial performance of W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 16 Table of Contents our properties, such monitoring may not in all circumstances ascertain or forestall deterioration either in the condition of a property or the financial circumstances of a tenant. We are subject to possible liabilities relating to environmental matters. We own commercial properties and are subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws. These responsibilities and liabilities also exist for properties owned by the CPA® REITs and if they become liable for these costs, their ability to pay for our services could be materially affected. Some of these laws could impose the following on us: – Responsibility and liability for the cost of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our property, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants; – Liability for the costs of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of such substances; – Potential liability for common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs of environmental contaminants; and – Claims being made against us by the CPA® REITs for inadequate due diligence. Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances, or for third-party claims for damages, may be substantial. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances at any of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. While we attempt to mitigate identified environmental risks by contractually requiring tenants to acknowledge their responsibility for complying with environmental laws and to assume liability for environmental matters, circumstances may arise in which a tenant fails, or is unable, to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, environmental liabilities, or costs or operating limitations imposed on a tenant to comply with environmental laws, could affect its ability to make rental payments to us. Also, and although we endeavor to avoid doing so, we may be required, in connection with any future divestitures of property, to provide buyers with indemnification against potential environmental liabilities. We may be unable to make investments on an advantageous basis. A significant element of our business strategy is the enhancement of our portfolio and the CPA® REIT portfolios through new investments. The consummation of any future investment will be subject to satisfactory completion of our analysis and due diligence review and to the negotiation of a definitive agreement. There can be no assurance that we or the CPA® REITs will be able to identify and invest in additional properties or will be able to finance investments in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such investment, if consummated, will be profitable for us or the CPA® REITs. If we are unable to consummate new investments in the future on our own behalf or that of the CPA® REITs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the cash available for distribution to our shareholders, either through net income on investments we own or through net income generated by our investment management operations. Our portfolio growth is constrained by our obligations to offer property transactions to the CPA® REITs. Under our investment advisory agreements with the CPA® REITs, we are required to use our best efforts to present a continuing and suitable investment program to them. In recent years, new property investment opportunities have generally been made available by us to the CPA® REITs. While the allocation of new investments to the CPA® REITs fulfills our duty to present a continuing and suitable investment program and enhances the revenues from our investment management operations, it also restricts the potential growth of revenues from our real estate ownership and our ability to diversity our portfolio. We may suffer uninsured losses. There are certain types of losses (such as due to wars or some natural disasters) that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the limits of our insurance occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely affect our financial condition. A potential change in United States accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of facilities less attractive to our potential domestic tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 13, “Accounting for Leases,” a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. This situation is considered to be met if, among other things, the non-cancellable lease term is more than 75% of the useful life of the asset or if the present value of the minimum lease payments equals 90% or more of the leased property’s fair value. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 17 Table of Contents the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant and the obligation does not appear on the tenant’s balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant’s balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. In 2005, the SEC conducted a study of off-balance-sheet financing that, among other areas, included lease accounting. This study raised concerns that the current accounting model does not clearly portray the resources and obligations arising from long term lease transactions with sufficient transparency. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the International Accounting Standards Board announced a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential customers. These changes may affect how the real estate leasing business is conducted both domestically and internationally. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This in turn could make it more difficult for us to enter leases on terms we find favorable. The value of our real estate is subject to fluctuation. We are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of real estate. While the revenues from our leases and those of the CPA® REITs are not directly dependent upon the value of the real estate owned, significant declines in real estate values could adversely affect us in many ways, including a decline in the residual values of properties at lease expiration; possible lease abandonments by tenants; a decline in the attractiveness of REIT investments that may impede our ability to raise new funds for investment by CPA® REITs and a decline in the attractiveness of triple-net lease transactions to potential sellers. We also face the risk that lease revenue will be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness we incur. General risks associated with the ownership of real estate include: – Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions, – Changes in the supply of or demand for similar or competing properties, – Changes in interest rates and operating expenses, – Competition for tenants, – Changes in market rental rates, – Inability to lease or sell properties upon termination of existing leases, – Renewal of leases at lower rental rates, – Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy, – Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate, – Uninsured property liability, property damage or casualty losses, – Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, and – Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. We depend on key personnel for our future success. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of these executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our governing documents and capital structure may discourage a takeover. Wm. Polk Carey, Chairman, is the beneficial owner of approximately 30% of our outstanding shares. The provisions of our Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement and the share ownership of Mr. Carey may discourage a tender offer for our shares or a hostile takeover, even though these may be attractive to shareholders. Proposed legislation may prevent us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may significantly increase our tax liability and may affect the market value of our shares. Members of the United States Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly traded partnership rules. If this or any similar legislation or regulation were to be enacted and to apply to us, we would incur a material increase in our tax liability and the market value of our shares could decline materially. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. W. P. Carey 2008 10-K — 18 Table of Contents 