Item 1A. Risk Factors You should read carefully and consider the following risks and uncertainties because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is subject to the conditions of the local economy in which we operate and a continued downturn in the real estate market may adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, where substantially all of our loans are originated. The Chicago metropolitan area has experienced a decline in residential home sales since 2006, and the downturn in the residential housing market has reduced demand and market prices for developed residential lots and vacant land as well as homes. This reduced demand has required certain residential developers to hold their properties for longer periods of time or attempt to sell their properties at reduced prices, which can lead to greater holding costs and lower or deferred cash flows. These factors can trigger higher credit risk for the lender, which may result in an increase in defaults and losses on loans. Adverse changes in the economy of the Chicago metropolitan area could reduce demand for new loans and impair our ability to gather deposits. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 66% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans that were to some degree secured by real estate, and our nonperforming real estate loans increased to $53.0 million as of that date. A continued downturn in the residential real estate market may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including higher provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs, lower net interest income caused by an increase in nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs. In addition, we may be required to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values under various liquidation scenarios, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, the impact of competition on our underwriting terms, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding not only our borrowers’ probability of default, but also the fair value of the underlying collateral. The current illiquidity in the real estate market has increased the uncertainty with respect to real estate values. Because of the degree of uncertainty and the sensitivity of valuations to the underlying assumptions regarding the holding period until sale and the collateral liquidation method, our actual losses may significantly vary from our current estimates. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Such regulators may require us to make additional provisions to the allowance or recognize additional loan 9 Table of Contents charge-offs based upon their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examinations. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lending concentration risks. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. These loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and therefore have higher potential losses on an individual loan basis. Larger commercial loans also can cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans. For example, our current credit risk rating and loss estimate with respect to a single sizeable loan can have a material impact on our reported impaired loans and related loss exposure estimates. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, approximately 26% of our loan portfolio relates to real estate construction, a material portion of which relates to residential real estate development. New residential home sales have declined dramatically over the last year, increasing financial stress on certain real estate developers. Deterioration in the credit quality of our real estate constructions loans would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We are subject to interest rate risk. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., LIBOR and prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, our loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Our internal financial simulation modeling indicates that our net interest margin will likely decline in the next six months because of the recent reduction in the Prime rate as our portfolio of prime-based loans is expected to reprice faster than our term deposits. We estimate that, as of December 31, 2007, our net interest income at risk for year one in a falling rate scenario of 200 basis points would be approximately $1.9 million, or 1.87%, lower than our net interest income in a rates unchanged scenario. Additional critical factors affecting our net interest margin that are not specifically measured as part of interest rate risk are the impact of competition on loan and deposit pricing as well as changes in our balance sheet such as the volume of nonaccrual loans and the mix of our assets or funding. Computation of prospective effects of hypothetical interest rate changes are based on numerous assumptions, including relative levels of market interest rates, loan and security prepayments, deposit decay and pricing and reinvestment strategies and should not be relied upon as being indicative of actual future results. We attempt to mitigate our interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities and using derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk associated with specific hedged items. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposit withdrawals and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits, out-of-local-market certificates of deposit, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances. At December 31, 2007, we had uncollateralized funding of $55.5 million of brokered money market deposits, $505.6 million of brokered time deposits and $117.2 million of out-of-local-market time deposits. In addition, we had $200.0 million of broker/dealer repurchase agreements and $205.0 million of advances from the FHLB outstanding at year end 2007. Adverse operating results or changes in industry or market conditions could lead to an inability to obtain the necessary funding at maturity. Our growth and financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Our credit ratings from independent rating agencies could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital. In January 2008, an independent debt rating agency, Fitch Ratings, downgraded its rating of the Company’s and the Bank’s debt. Fitch reduced its long and short-term debt ratings by one rating notch. Specifically, the long-term debt rating was revised to BB+ from BBB- and the short-term debt rating was revised to B from F3, which resulted in the debt ratings moving from investment grade to non-investment grade on Fitch’s rating scale. Fitch’s ratings for the Bank’s deposits, however, remained investment grade at BBB- and F3 for the long and short-term deposit ratings, respectively. Although the revised deposit ratings remain investment grade, the ratings decline could negatively impact the acquisition or retention of deposits above the FDIC insured deposit limits. Additionally, Fitch revised its ratings outlook for the Company to negative from stable. The downgrade of our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital. Future ratings downgrade could also subject us to negative publicity and have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain deposits and grow our business. We may be unable to respond cost effectively to unanticipated deposit volatility created by significant deposit customers. As a part of our liquidity management, we must ensure we can respond effectively to potential volatility in our customers’ deposit balances. We have customers that maintain significant deposit balances, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse affect on our daily liquidity management. We could encounter difficulty meeting a significant deposit outflow, in which case our profitability or reputation could be negatively affected. We use primarily FHLB borrowings, broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet immediate liquidity needs. In addition, the Bank is able to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank through the Borrower-in-Custody (“BIC”) program. At December 31, 2007, the Bank maintained pre-approved overnight federal funds borrowing lines at various correspondent banks totaling $260 million, repurchase agreement availability with major brokers and banks totaling $610 million and collateral under the BIC program for borrowings totaling $307 million. While we believe these alternative funding sources are adequate to meet any significant unanticipated deposit withdrawal, we may not be able to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility. If we failed to do so, our business, financial condition and reputation could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in our market. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We have observed that the competition in our market for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market area. Changes in our management team could negatively impact our business and profitability. During 2007 and early 2008, the composition of our executive management team significantly changed. In May 2007, we appointed Robin VanCastle, who had previously served as our Chief Accounting Officer, as our Chief Financial Officer. In January 2008, Mark A. Hoppe was appointed as our President and the Bank’s President and Chief Executive Officer. These titles were previously held by Bruce W. Taylor, who continues to serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In addition both, John Timmer, our Executive President of Relationship Banking, and Mark Garrigus, our Chief Credit Officer, have announced their intention to leave the Company and pursue other interests in 2008. Management changes could create uncertainty and adversely affect our relationships with our customers and employees. In addition, new members of our senior management team may need to devote a portion of their time to learn about aspects of our business and our customer base, which could lessen the amount of their time managing our business, which could adversely affect our business and our profitability. Our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and experienced personnel in our customer relationship positions. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly skilled relationship manager that will serve as the customer’s key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a “trusted advisor” for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Competition for experienced personnel is intense and we may not be able to successfully retain and attract such personnel. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy. Our future success depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that result in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business would be materially harmed. 12 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the protection of depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of investors. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. Cole Taylor Bank, as an Illinois-chartered member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the DFPR and by the Federal Reserve. We must undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. Our failure to comply with state and federal regulations can lead to, among other things, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully satisfy the regulatory authorities that supervise us. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could cause us to change or limit some of our loan products or the way we operate our business and could adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to the vagaries of domestic and international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could adversely affect our business. Our business is directly affected by domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, competition, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, consolidation within our customer base and within our industry and inflation. For example, major disruptions in the financial markets have negatively impacted the liquidity and market value of various fixed income securities. In addition, the market for collateralized debt obligations has deteriorated significantly and a major source of bank regulatory capital from the trust preferred securities market has essentially closed. The absence of an active trust preferred securities market has removed an attractively priced source of capital for banks. We have used the trust preferred securities market in the past and had callable securities totaling $44 million at December 31, 2007. A reduction in financing alternatives due to financial market disruptions could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if an occurrence is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and 13 Table of Contents regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and other as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees, and business relationships. We are subject to security risks relating to our internet banking activities that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments. 