Item 1A. Risk Factors You should read carefully and consider the following risks and uncertainties because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is subject to the conditions of the local economy in which we operate and a continued downturn in the local economy and the real estate market may adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, where the majority of our loans are originated. The Chicago metropolitan area has experienced a decline in residential home sales since 2006, and the downturn in the residential housing market has reduced demand and market prices for developed residential lots and vacant land as well as homes. This housing market has negatively impacted many of our residential real estate development customers and resulted in an increase in our nonperforming loans. We have also experienced an increase in nonperforming loans in the commercial and industrial and income producing properties categories in 2008. A continued downturn in the Chicago area economy may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including higher provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs, lower net interest income caused by an increase in nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs. In addition, we may be required to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Continued adverse conditions in the economy of the Chicago metropolitan area could also reduce demand for new loans and impair our ability to attract and retain deposits. Our business is subject to domestic and international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, competition, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, and consolidation within our customer base and within our industry. For example, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for banks and other financial institutions without regard to their financial strength. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist and whether our actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the banking and financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) in response to the impact of the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets on the banking industry. The U.S. Department of Treasury (“UST”) and the federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation that are intended to address the current economic conditions and the asset quality, capital and liquidity issues they have caused. If this legislation and its related programs fail to adequately address these conditions, a continuation or worsening of the current economic and market conditions could occur and that likely would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses 11 Table of Contents inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values under various liquidation scenarios, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, the impact of competition on our underwriting terms, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding not only our borrowers’ probability of default, but also the fair value of the underlying collateral. The current illiquidity in the real estate market has increased the uncertainty with respect to real estate values. Because of the degree of uncertainty and the sensitivity of valuations to the underlying assumptions regarding the holding period until sale and the collateral liquidation method, our actual losses may significantly vary from our current estimates. Our commercial loans and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risk than residential real estate loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of our customers’ businesses, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by the ability of our customers to execute on their business strategies and may be adversely impacted by adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. If our customers are unable to successfully operate their businesses due to the current economic downturn or otherwise, our actual losses on our commercial loans may exceed our current estimates. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Such regulators may require us to make additional provisions to the allowance or recognize additional loan charge-offs based upon their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examinations. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to lending concentration risks. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. These loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and therefore have higher potential losses on an individual loan basis, and in 2008, the average size of our commercial loan originations increased based in large part on the customer relationships brought to us by relationship managers we hired in 2008. Credit quality issues on larger commercial loans, if they were to occur, could cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans and the deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. New residential home sales have declined dramatically over the last year, increasing financial stress on our real estate developer customers and adversely impacting their ability to repay their loan obligations as agreed. Further deterioration in the credit quality of our real estate construction loans would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to respond effectively to unanticipated deposit volatility. As a part of our liquidity management, we must ensure we can respond effectively to potential volatility in our customers’ deposit balances. We have customers that maintain significant deposit balances, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse affect on our daily liquidity management. We could encounter difficulty meeting a significant deposit outflow, in which case our capital position, reputation or profitability could be negatively affected. We use primarily Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances, broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet our immediate liquidity needs. In addition, the Bank is able to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank through the Borrower-in-Custody program. If we fail to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility, our business, financial condition and reputation could be materially adversely affected. Changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital on commercially acceptable terms. Fitch Ratings downgraded its rating of the Company and the Bank three times during 2008. Fitch reduced the long and short-term debt and deposit ratings from investment grade to non-investment grade and revised its ratings outlook to negative from stable. Specifically, the long-term debt rating was revised to BB- from BBB- and the short-term debt rating was revised to B from F3, which resulted in the debt ratings moving from investment grade to speculative (non-investment) grade on Fitch’s rating scale. Fitch’s ratings of the Bank’s deposits were also downgraded to speculative grade. We have also experienced a decline in our ratings from other independent bank rating entities, such as IDC, LACE and Bankrate.com. These and any future ratings declines could subject us to negative publicity, adversely impact our ability to acquire or retain deposits, and increase our cost of borrowing or limit our asset growth. Furthermore, our credit ratings are an important factor for some of our sources of liquidity, and reductions in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. Reduced access to wholesale funding sources and the brokered CD market may hinder our ability to replace deposit withdrawals and support our operations and future growth. We must maintain access to sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to continue to use sources of liquidity such as brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits, out-of-local-market certificates of deposit, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and FHLB advances. Under FDIC regulations, only “well-capitalized” institutions may issue brokered CDs without prior regulatory approval. The Bank is currently categorized as “well-capitalized” and therefore may continue to utilize this funding source. Brokered CD distributors utilize capital ratios and other criteria in evaluating and approving those banks that they allow to issue brokered CDs through their distribution network. Extreme distress in the financial markets, combined with our adverse operating results, has resulted in a reduction in our access to some of these brokered CD distribution networks. If our access to the brokered CD market were reduced in any material respect, it could lead to an inability to replace brokered deposits at maturity, which would result in higher costs to, or reduced asset levels at, the Bank. The Bank manages this risk by utilizing multiple brokered CD distributors and has not experienced any difficulty acquiring sufficient deposits at market rates through this funding source. Consistent with tighter credit market conditions generally, a number of our counterparties have reduced our borrowing lines with them, including our pre-approved overnight federal funds borrowing lines and repurchase 13 Table of Contents agreement lines. Our growth, financial flexibility and ability to effectively fund our ongoing operations could be constrained if adequate financing is not available on commercially acceptable terms. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, which in turn would adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We are subject to interest rate risk. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., LIBOR and prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, our loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We attempt to mitigate our interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities and using derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk associated with specific hedged items. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory restrictions and liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. Historically, our primary source of funds at the holding company level has been dividends received from the Bank. The Bank is subject to dividend restrictions set forth by regulatory authorities, whereby it may not, without prior approval of regulatory authorities, declare dividends in excess of the sum of the current year’s earnings plus the retained earnings from the prior two years. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank could not declare or pay dividends to us without the approval of regulatory authorities. In order to preserve capital, our Board of Directors determined to suspend the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Current and future liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to declare and pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future. We have a $15 million revolving credit facility, of which $12 million was outstanding at December 31, 2008. Subsequent to year-end 2008, we executed an amendment with our lender to extend this facility, which was scheduled to expire on March 31, 2009, until March 31, 2010. Furthermore, we are committed to maintaining the Bank’s well capitalized status, and if the Bank were to incur significant losses in 2009, capital injections from the holding company to the Bank would further reduce cash at the holding company level. The UST may also impose limitations on our ability to use funds we received from our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), including with respect to the payment of dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. For example, we are currently prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock without the UST’s consent until the earlier of November 21, 2012 and the date on which the UST no longer holds any of our Series B preferred stock. If we are unable to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future, the market value of such securities may be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the protection of depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of investors. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. Cole Taylor Bank, as an Illinois-chartered member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the DFPR and by the Federal Reserve. We must undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. Our failure to comply with state and federal regulations can lead to, among other things, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully satisfy the regulatory authorities that supervise us. In addition, FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly during 2008 and the FDIC is significantly increasing insurance premiums during 2009 for banks that utilize brokered CDs and secured FHLB advances over certain defined limits. Based on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, such increase would apply to us. Such increased premiums may adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced an interim rule in which the FDIC will impose an emergency special assessment equal to 20 basis points on each insured institutions assessment base on June 30, 2009, and paid to the FDIC on September 30, 2009. The assessment base of the special assessment will be the same as the assessment base for regular deposit insurance premiums. Furthermore, we are significantly impacted by the policies of the Federal Reserve, whose fiscal policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our participation in the TARP CPP may place significant restrictions on our operations. Under the TARP CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock without the UST’s approval until November 21, 2012, unless all of our Series B preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and other securities is restricted. The consent of the UST generally is required for us to make any stock repurchases (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B preferred stock have been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. Further, we may not repurchase shares of our common stock or Series A preferred stock if we are in arrears on the payment of Series B preferred stock dividends. Due to our participation in the TARP CPP, we are also subject to the UST’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the UST holds our Series B preferred stock. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) a prohibition on making “golden parachute payments” to senior executive officers; and (iv) an agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year. The change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. 15 Table of Contents The passage of ARRA on February 17, 2009 imposed additional executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including us. The executive compensation standards are more stringent than those previously in effect under the CPP or those previously proposed by the UST. The new standards include (i) prohibitions on bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation to our five most highly paid employees other than restricted stock grants which do not fully vest during the TARP period and have a value of no more than one-third of the affected employee’s total annual compensation, (ii) prohibitions on any severance payments to any of our senior executive officers in connection with their departure from our company, (iii) an expanded clawback of bonuses, retention awards, and incentive compensation if payment is based on materially inaccurate statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (iv) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings, (v) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation previously provided by TARP recipients if found by the UST to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to public interest, (vi) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures,” and (vii) inclusion in a participant’s proxy statement for any annual stockholder meeting of a nonbinding “Say on Pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives. The restrictions on bonuses and incentive compensation in particular may result in us issuing additional shares of our common stock to compensate our executive officers that likely would result in dilution to our common stockholders and could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. The TARP CPP and ARRA may cause uncertainty among affected executives. If we are not able to manage effectively any such uncertainty, it could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. Such recent regulations are having, and future legislation and regulations will also have, a significant impact on the financial services industry, which changes could cause us to modify the way we operate our business and could adversely affect our profitability. Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in our market. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We have observed that the competition in our market for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market area. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients, which transactions may expose us to certain default risks. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to cover such risks, resulting in losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business would suffer if our new management team does not work together effectively. During 2008, the composition of our senior management team significantly changed. In January 2008, Mark A. Hoppe was appointed as our President and the Bank’s President and Chief Executive Officer. These titles were previously held by Bruce W. Taylor, who continues to serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 16 Table of Contents We also appointed a new Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Chief Credit Officer and Chief Lending Officer. Many of these executives have worked together in the past at a larger institution. However, if they are not able to work together effectively, or if they need to devote a significant amount of time to learn about aspects of our business and our customer base, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and experienced personnel in our customer relationship positions. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly skilled relationship manager that will serve as the customer’s key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a “trusted advisor” for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Competition for experienced personnel is intense and we may not be able to successfully retain and attract such personnel. We may not be able to execute, or effectively manage, our growth strategy. Our future success depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that results in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers who currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. Although we believe that we have the necessary resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, our growth strategy exposes us to certain risks and expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business would be materially harmed. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in branch expansion. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to certain additional risks. We will consider and may enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and we can give no assurance that our projected price and profitability targets will be attainable or that our efforts will be successful. In addition, new lines of business and new products and services could significantly impact the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The expansion of our asset-based lending initiative may be difficult or expensive and place additional stress on our infrastructure. During 2008, we hired an Executive Vice President to lead an expanded asset-based lending initiative and we opened offices in Kansas City, Milwaukee, Houston and Baltimore to develop new business in these markets. 17 Table of Contents This initiative will greatly increase our existing asset-based lending operations and involves a number of risks and uncertainties, including entering geographical markets that are new to the Company. We may invest a significant amount of time and resources and incur substantial costs in expanding this line of business and there can be no assurances that our efforts will be successful. In addition, an increase in asset-based lending volumes may place additional stress on our lending, credit and loan servicing infrastructure, which could adversely impact our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if an occurrence is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees, and business relationships. We are subject to security risks relating to our internet banking activities that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments. 18 Table of Contents 