Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk FactorsInvesting in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Any of these risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects, and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to our BusinessOur success is dependent on our ability to identify and acquire operating businesses or make other investments that generate taxable earnings, which is subject to significant uncertainties and limitations. With the sale of Corvisa complete, we intend to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire operating businesses or make other investments that generate taxable earnings. There can be no assurances that we will be able to identify or successfully acquire new operating businesses. The process of identifying an acquisition target and negotiating an acquisition may take an extended period of time and could result in significant additional expenditures, such as legal and consulting fees. Our ability to acquire operating businesses is significantly constrained by our likely inability to obtain additional debt financing. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, which could significantly harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions present integration risk and may have negative consequences for our business and our stockholders.The process of integrating acquired businesses into the Company may result in unforeseen difficulties, liabilities and costs. Significant management attention and resources are required to integrate any acquired businesses. Difficulties that we encounter in integrating the operations of acquired businesses could significantly harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.2Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could be severely limited in the event of certain transfers of our voting securities.We currently have recorded a significant deferred tax asset, before valuation allowance, almost all of which relates to certain net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in-losses. While we believe that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to utilize such losses in the future, the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could provide significant future tax savings to us if we are able to fully utilize such losses. However, our ability to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted or eliminated due to a future “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change could occur that would severely limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses, which may result in higher taxable income for us (and a significantly higher tax cost as compared to the situation where these tax benefits are preserved).We may become subject to the regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which would impose significant responsibilities and restrictions on our ability to do business.We plan to continue to conduct our business and operations in such a manner as not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). Investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure and transactions with affiliates. An entity may generally be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act if (a) it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (b) absent an applicable exemption, it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets (the “40% Test”). We do not believe we are primarily engaged in an investment company type business, nor do we propose to primarily engage in such a business. However, as a result of the sale of Corvisa in January 2016, we can no longer definitively conclude that we pass the 40% Test.We intend to rely on the exemption from investment company status under Rule 3a-2 under the Investment Company Act, which provides that a company is deemed not to be an investment company for up to one year provided that the company has a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible, in a business other than that of an investment company. Accordingly, we intend to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire operating businesses as soon as reasonably possible, or seek to rely on another exemption under the Investment Company Act. This may limit our ability to make certain investments other than the acquisition of operating businesses, or require us to take or forego certain actions, which could otherwise be beneficial to us.If we are not able to acquire operating businesses during the one-year grace period under Rule 3a-2 or rely on another exemption under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to take certain other actions to comply with the Investment Company Act, which actions may include divesting certain desirable assets immediately or registering as an investment company. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing the senior notes (the "Indentures") we issued on March 22, 2011 (the “Senior Notes”) contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations, capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Without the prior consent of the holders of our Senior Notes, the terms of our Senior Notes and the related Indentures restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur indebtedness;•create certain liens;•make payments from our subsidiaries to us;•make payments to our shareholders;•acquire our outstanding shares, or the shares of our subsidiaries;•make payments on debt securities pari passu or junior to the Senior Notes; and•merge, consolidate, transfer and/or sell substantially all of our assets.There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive the consent of the persons holding the Senior Notes should we have a need to take one of the restricted actions, which such limitation may hinder our ability to operate or grow our business in the future. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business.The loss of certain key members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional qualified senior management personnel.3We may not have access to financing on reasonable terms or at all, which may be necessary for us to acquire and operate new businesses.We do not currently have in place any agreements or commitments for short-term financing nor any agreements or commitments for additional long-term financing. In light of these factors and current market conditions, we may not be able to secure additional financing for a potential acquisition. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities and to estimate fair values could further adversely affect our financial position.The Company uses significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) to estimate the fair value of its residual mortgage securities. Material differences between actual experience and the assumptions used to determine the fair value of these securities may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, one significant unobservable input used to determine the fair value of the Company's residual mortgage securities is the prepayment rate for the underlying mortgage loan collateral. If prepayment rates are faster (higher) than our estimates, the value of the securities may decline significantly.The cash flows from, and value of, our mortgage securities will further decline as the underlying mortgage loan collateral declines.There are many factors that affect the cash flows from, and value of, our mortgage securities, many of which are beyond our control. In general, the nature of mortgage securities is that as the underlying mortgage loan collateral is repaid or defaults, the cash flows from, and value of, our securities will decline. Risks Related to our Legacy BusinessesWe may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could further harm our liquidity.When we sold mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we made customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower, broker, or employee fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. We have received various repurchase demands as performance of subprime mortgage loans has deteriorated. A majority of repurchase requests have been denied, otherwise a negotiated purchase price adjustment was agreed upon with the purchaser. Enforcement of repurchase obligations against us would further harm our liquidity.There can be no assurance that the Company will earn any post-closing consideration under the terms of the StreetLinks sale.On April 16, 2014, the Company, and the minority owners of StreetLinks, sold StreetLinks LLC to Assurant Services, LLC and Assurant, Inc. A portion of the total sales price of StreetLinks was in the form of an earn-out of up to $12 million dependent on the total revenue of StreetLinks in fiscal 2015 and 2016 (the “Earn-Out”), and subject to adjustment for working capital and the other terms and conditions set forth in the definitive agreement.Under the Earn-Out, if (a) the total revenue of StreetLinks is $184 million or more for calendar year 2015, then Assurant will pay to all the sellers of StreetLinks an aggregate of $12 million (subject to reduction for certain earned bonus payments to StreetLinks employees); but if not, then (b) if the total revenue of StreetLinks is greater than $167.5 million for the calendar year 2016, Assurant will pay to all the seller’s up to an aggregate of $12 million (subject to reduction for certain earned bonus payments to StreetLinks employees), based on a linear scale where full payment of the $12 million would occur at total revenue of $184 million. At the time of the sale, the Company owned 88% of StreetLinks.There can be no assurance that the Company will receive any payment under the Earn-Out. Assurant has agreed to act in good faith in conducting the business of StreetLinks and to keep separate records, but generally Novation does not control how Assurant may operate the business of StreetLinks. StreetLinks did not meet the revenue target set for calendar year 2015. Risks Related to our Capital Stock There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to be traded in an active market.Our common stock currently trades on the OTCQB market of the OTC Markets Group, Inc. Trading of securities on this quotation service is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on exchanges, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase our stock will find that the liquidity or transferability of the stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our stock. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and the ability of an investor to transfer their shares of our common stock may be limited. 4The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our capital stock can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our capital stock include:•actual or perceived changes in our ability to continue as a going concern;•actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and cash flow;•general market and economic conditions, including the operations and stock performance of other industry participants;•the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions;•actual or anticipated changes in the delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans, in general, and specifically on the loans we invest in through our mortgage securities;•actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;•sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders;•additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and•actions by institutional shareholders. Some provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law and our current shareholder rights plan may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices.Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law, and our current shareholder rights plan could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance notice procedures. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. Finally, we have a shareholder rights plan to protect our net operating loss carryforwards by preventing any shareholder from becoming a 5% shareholder, which may constitute a change in control of the Company.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.