Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations and depends primarily on the Bank’s ability to distribute funds to us, which is also limited by various statutes and regulations.Enterprise Financial Services Corp depends on payments from the Bank, including dividends and payments under tax sharing agreements, for substantially all of its revenue. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends and the amount of payments that the Bank may make to Enterprise Financial Services Corp under tax sharing agreements. In certain circumstances, the Missouri Division of Finance, FDIC or Federal Reserve could restrict or prohibit the Bank from distributing dividends or making other payments to us. In the event that the Bank was restricted from paying dividends to Enterprise Financial Services Corp or make payments under the tax sharing agreement, Enterprise Financial Services Corp may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock or pay dividends on its common stock. If we are unable or determine not to pay dividends on our common stock, the market price of the common stock could be materially adversely affected. The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock.The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock provide that prior to the earlier of (i) December 19, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.0525 per share per quarter or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share.The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors.In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six or more quarters (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. 10 Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have voting rights in certain circumstances.Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the rights to elect directors as described above, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have voting rights in certain circumstances. So long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. EFSC’s board of directors has broad discretion regarding the type and price of such securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. Holders of our common stock do not have anti-dilution or preemptive rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (“DGCL”), EFSC’s certificate of incorporation (as amended and together with all certificates of designations) or by-laws. Shares of our common stock are not redeemable and have no subscription or conversion rights. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock could be diluted to the extent the CPP Warrant is exercised for up to 324,074 shares of our common stock. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the CPP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the CPP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the CPP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our employee stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock could incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The terms of the CPP Warrant include an anti-dilution adjustment, which provides that, if we issue common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable, or exchangeable for, common stock at a price that is less than ninety percent (90%) of the market price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date we agree to sell such shares, the number of shares of our common stock to be issued would increase and the per share price of the common stock to be purchased pursuant to the warrant would decrease. We have outstanding subordinated debentures issued to statutory trust subsidiaries, which have issued and sold preferred securities to investors.If we are unable to make payments on any of our subordinated debentures for more than twenty (20) consecutive quarters, we would be in default under the governing agreements for such securities and the amounts due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Additionally, if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures (which will be used to make distributions on the trust preferred securities), or if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures, or if any other event of default occurs, then we generally will be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of our capital securities, including the common stock, during the next succeeding interest payment period applicable to any of the subordinated debentures, or next succeeding interest payment period, as the case may be. Moreover, any other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the common stock. In the event that our existing or future financing agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. In addition, if we are unable or determine not to pay interest on our subordinated debentures, the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. 11 Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws as well as various provisions of federal and Missouri state law applicable to bank and bank holding companies could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In the event of a proposed merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company, our board of directors would have the ability to readily issue available shares of preferred stock as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such issuance could occur whether or not our stockholders favorably view the merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of its authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS Not applicable. 