Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those described below, which in turn may affect the value of our securities. In addition, other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results and events may differ substantially from those discussed or highlighted in these forward-looking statements. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. The Agreement and Plan of Merger with MB Financial may be terminated in accordance with its terms, and the merger may not be completed. Our Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with MB Financial is subject to a number of conditions, including regulatory approvals, which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger of the Company with and into MB Financial (the “Merger”). If the conditions to the closing of the Merger are not fulfilled, then the Merger may not be completed. The Company and MB Financial, or either of them, as applicable, may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances.14Table of ContentsTermination of the Merger Agreement could negatively impact us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, our business may be adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger. Also, if the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. We may be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. We and MB Financial have entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiffs to settle two stockholder actions previously filed against us, our board of directors and MB Financial challenging the Merger. It is possible that additional suits may be filed in the future. If the settlement of these existing suits is not approved by the court or is otherwise voided, an adverse ruling in these or any similar future lawsuits may prevent the Merger from being completed or from being completed within the expected timeframe.One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction preventing the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement shall be in effect. As such, if the settlement of the existing stockholder lawsuits is voided, and a settlement or other resolution is not reached in these or any other potential lawsuit, then the Merger may be prevented from being completed, or from being completed within the expected timeframe.The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal and requires us to pay a termination fee of $20 million under limited circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. The Merger Agreement prohibits MB Financial and us from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging or facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides for the payment by MB Financial or us of a termination fee in the amount of $20 million in the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated for certain reasons, including, among others, certain changes in the recommendation of our board of directors or the termination of the Merger Agreement in conjunction with another acquisition proposal by a third party. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of the Company from considering or proposing such an acquisition.We may be materially and adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, FDIC funds, customers and the banking system as a whole, rather than stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things.As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. The Bank, as an Illinois-chartered state member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by both the IDFPR and the Federal Reserve. We and the Bank undergo periodic examinations by these regulators, which have extensive discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companiesThe primary federal and state banking laws and regulations that affect us are described in this report under the section captioned "Supervision and Regulation" in Item 1. Business. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, which significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with the regulations to be developed thereunder, includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies are and will be regulated. In addition, in recent years the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks' overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Further, the CFPB has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has released a number of proposed and final rules that are of significant import to the banking industry and the conduct of the residential mortgage business. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the future.Additionally, in July 2013, the U.S. federal banking agencies approved the implementation of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the United States. The Basel III Rule not only increases most of the required minimum capital ratios to which financial institutions are subject, but it introduces the concept of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, which consists primarily of common stock, related surplus (net of treasury stock), retained earnings, and Common Equity Tier 1 minority 15Table of Contentsinterests subject to certain regulatory adjustments. The Basel III Rule also expanded the definition of capital as in effect currently by establishing more stringent criteria that instruments must meet to be considered Additional Tier 1 Capital (Tier 1 Capital in addition to Common Equity) and Tier 2 Capital. The Basel III Rule revises a number of the risk weightings (or their methodologies) for bank assets that are used to determine the capital ratios. For nearly every class of assets, the Basel III Rule requires a more complex, detailed and calibrated assessment of credit risk and calculation of risk weightings. Generally, financial institutions (except for large, internationally active financial institutions) become subject to the new rules on January 1, 2015. U.S. financial institutions are also subject to numerous monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements designed to detect and prevent illegal activities such as money laundering and terrorist financing. These requirements are imposed primarily through the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”), which was most recently amended by the USA Patriot Act. We have instituted policies and procedures to protect us and our employees, to the extent reasonably possible, from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. There can be no guarantee, however, that these policies and procedures will be effective.Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies could result in enforcement and other legal actions by federal and state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In this regard, government authorities, including bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures. Although we have policies and procedures designed to mitigate the risk of any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. In addition to the foregoing laws and regulations, policies of the Federal Reserve also have a significant impact on us. Among other things, the Federal Reserve's monetary policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Dependence on our mortgage business may increase volatility in our consolidated revenues and earnings and our residential mortgage lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and sell mortgage loans at profitable margins.In 2013, Cole Taylor Mortgage contributed approximately 44% of our consolidated revenues, compared with 47% in 2012, and 39% of the consolidated net income available for our common stockholders, compared to 61% in 2012. As a result of the factors set forth below with respect to our mortgage business, we could experience significant volatility in our consolidated revenue and consolidated net income available for common stockholders. Mortgage production, especially refinancing, generally declines in rising interest rate environments. While we experienced historically low interest rates in recent years, interest rates began to rise in 2013. Accordingly, if interest rates rise further, or even if they do not, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in addition to the interest rate environment, our mortgage business is dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans into that market. Our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by the government sponsored enterprises ("GSEs") and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are GSEs whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect them could, in turn, materially and adversely affect us. The impact on us of existing proposals to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were placed into conservatorship in 2008, is difficult to predict. In addition, our ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon our ability to remain eligible for the programs offered by GSEs and other market participants. Our ability to remain eligible to originate and securitize government insured loans may also depend on our having an acceptable delinquency ratio for Federal Housing Administration loans relative to our peers. Any significant impairment of our eligibility to participate in the programs offered by the GSEs could materially and adversely affect us. Further, the criteria for loans to be accepted under such programs may be changed from time-to-time by the sponsoring entity which could result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations or other administrative costs. 16Table of ContentsChanges in interest rates may change the value of our mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") portfolio which may increase the volatility of our earnings. We continue to expand our mortgage origination and residential mortgage servicing operations. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizable portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. We invest in MSRs to support mortgage banking strategies and diversify revenue streams from our mortgage banking segment. We measure and carry all of our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is determined as the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. The primary risk associated with MSRs is that in a declining interest rate environment, they will likely lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of the mortgage loans would be reduced. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than previously estimated. Although we invest in MSRs to diversify the revenue streams from our mortgage banking segment, the increasing size of our MSR portfolio may increase our interest rate risk and correspondingly, the volatility of our earnings, especially if we cannot adequately hedge the interest rate risk relating to our MSRs. At December 31, 2013, our MSRs had a fair value of approximately $216.1 million. Changes in fair value of our MSRs are recorded to earnings in each period. Depending on the interest rate environment, it is possible that the fair value of our MSRs may be reduced in the future. If such changes in fair value significantly reduce the carrying value of our MSRs, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.The Basel III Rule constrains the inclusion of MSRs in capital and requires deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital in the event such assets exceed a certain percentage of a bank’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. See the discussion captioned "Supervision and Regulation - U.S. Implementation of Basel III" under Item 1. Business above in this report.Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in MSRs, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates and market liquidity. We use derivative instruments to hedge MSRs, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments to offset changes in fair value resulting from changing interest rate environments. Our hedging strategies are highly susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors. In addition, hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings. Our mortgage loan repurchase reserve for losses could be insufficient. We currently maintain a repurchase reserve, which is a liability on our consolidated balance sheets, to reflect our best estimate of expected losses that we will incur on loans that we have sold or securitized into the secondary market and must subsequently repurchase or with respect to which we must indemnify the purchasers and insurers because of violations of customary representations and warranties. The balance of this reserve at December 31, 2013 was $4.8 million. Increases to this reserve for current loan sales reduce mortgage banking revenue. The level of the reserve reflects management's continuing evaluation of loss experience on repurchased loans, indemnifications and present economic conditions, as well as the actions of loan purchasers and guarantors. The determination of the appropriate level of the mortgage loan repurchase reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of repurchase risks and expected losses subsequently experienced. Both the assumptions and estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses. If additional reserves are required, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant increase in certain loan balances associated with our mortgage business may result in liquidity risk related to the funding of these loans.The held for sale loan balance in our mortgage business represents mortgage loans that are in the process of being sold to various investors. Loan balances steadily accumulate and then decrease at the time of sale. We fund these balances through short term funding, primarily through Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances, which require collateral. In the event that we experience a significant increase in our held for sale loan balances, our liquidity could be negatively impacted as we increase our short term borrowings and therefore our required collateral. Although we have access to other sources of contingent liquidity, we could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage this risk.17Table of ContentsWe are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees or customers of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees or customers could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct, employee errors and operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon outside third parties for processing and handling of our records and data. We rely on software developed by third party vendors to process various transactions. In some cases, we have contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on our behalf. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, loan and deposit processing, mortgage origination, secondary marketing, MSRs, servicing of mortgage loans and securities portfolio management. While we perform a review of controls instituted by the applicable vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and perform our own testing of user controls, we must rely on the continued maintenance of controls by these third party vendors, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, we maintain, or contract with third parties to maintain, backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, we may incur a temporary disruption in our ability to conduct our business or process our transactions, or incur damage to our reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or a breach of security may have a material adverse effect on us. System failure or breaches of our network security, including with respect to our internet banking activities, could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use in our operations and internet banking activities could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Computer break-ins, "phishing" and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as that of our customers engaging in internet banking activities. In addition, advances in computer capabilities or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of our systems designed to protect customer data. Although we have procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of any of these potential problems and intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to mitigate the risk of such occurrences, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Any interruption in, or breach in security of, our computer systems and network infrastructure, or that of our internet banking customers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business and drives our ability to make new loans or invest in securities. In addition, we require liquidity to meet our deposit and debt obligations as they come due. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or the economy generally. Factors that could reduce our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the markets in which we operate, particularly the Chicago area market, difficult credit markets or adverse regulatory actions against us. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Although we have increased our funding from our core customers to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding in recent years, we continue to use brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits ("CDs"), out-of-local-market CDs, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank ("FRB") advances as a source of liquidity. 18Table of ContentsUnder FDIC regulations, only "well-capitalized" institutions may issue brokered CDs without prior regulatory approval. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank was categorized as "well-capitalized" and, therefore, could continue to utilize this funding source. Brokered CD distributors may use other criteria in determining which banks to allow to issue brokered CDs through their distribution network. If our access to the brokered CD market were reduced in any material respect, it could lead to an inability to replace brokered deposits at maturity, which could result in higher costs to, or reduced asset levels at, the Bank. Our liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on our outstanding debt and equity instruments, capital we inject into the Bank, redemption of our previously issued debt, proceeds we raise through the issuance of debt and equity instruments, and dividends received from the Bank (if permitted). Our future liquidity position may be materially adversely affected if, in the future, one or a combination of the following events occur:•the Bank reports net losses or its earnings are weak relative to our cash flow needs as a holding company; •we deem it advisable or are required by our regulators to use cash at the holding company level to support loan growth of the Bank or address other capital needs of the Bank through downstream capital injections; or •we have difficulty raising cash at the holding company level through the issuance of debt or equity securities or accessing additional sources of credit. Our board of directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008 and we have been dependent upon our current cash position, dividends from the Bank and cash proceeds generated by capital raises to meet liquidity needs at the holding company level. If we foresee that we face diminished liquidity, we may, to the extent possible, seek to manage this risk by reducing the amount of capital we inject into the Bank. This may further reduce the capital position of the Bank, cause our growth to slow and result in regulatory criticism. We are subject to liquidity risk, including unanticipated deposit volatility. Our usual liquidity management challenges include responding to potential volatility in our customers' deposit balances. We primarily use advances from the FHLB, broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet our immediate liquidity needs. We have experienced an increase in client deposits, which has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue, that client deposits will remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain the reduced reliance on wholesale deposits. Increased customer confidence in general economic conditions, higher expected rates of return on other investments (including a rise in interest rates) or additional restrictions on the availability of FDIC coverage could each cause our customers to move all or a portion of their deposits to other investment options, thus causing a reduction in our deposits and increasing our reliance on wholesale or other funding sources. In addition, we have customers that maintain significant deposit balances with us, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse effect on our daily liquidity management. Further, the number of branches we maintain is small relative to our asset size, which could negatively impact our ability to acquire new deposits. In the event that we experience a significant deposit outflow, our liquidity could be negatively impacted such that our capital position, reputation or profitability could also be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility, we could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in certain ratings related to us or our credit could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital on commercially acceptable terms. We are rated by several different rating agencies, including IDC and Bankrate.com. Many factors, both within and out of our control, may cause these agencies to downgrade their ratings related to us, which could subject us to negative publicity, adversely impact our ability to acquire or retain deposits and increase our cost of borrowing or limit our asset growth. Also, our credit ratings are an important factor to the institutions that provide our sources of liquidity, and reductions in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. We cannot give any assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. As a bank holding company, our sources of funds are limited. We are a bank holding company, and our operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. When available, cash to pay dividends to our stockholders is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. Our ability to receive dividends or loans from the Bank is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to us in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if any proposed dividends are in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, as a structural matter, our right to participate in the assets of the Bank in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of the Bank would be subject to the claims of the Bank's creditors, including 19Table of Contentsdepositors, which would take priority except to the extent we may be a creditor with a recognized claim. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank had deposits and other liabilities of approximately $5.2 billion. We are subject to interest rate risk, including interest rate fluctuations, that could have a material adverse effect on us. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect:•our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; •the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; •the fair value of our MSRs; and •the average duration of our securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore, earnings and cash flows, could be adversely affected. Earnings and cash flows could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, if these strategies prove ineffective, or if any substantial, unexpected and prolonged change in market interest rates occurs, such events could have a material adverse effect on us. Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability and have a material adverse effect on us. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in the markets in which we operate. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We also compete with nonbank financial services providers, including mortgage companies, finance companies, mutual funds and credit unions. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions that we are and may be able to compete more effectively as a result. Also, technology and other changes have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The trend of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as "disintermediation," could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income otherwise generated from those deposits.We have observed that the competition in our markets for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for qualified commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our relatively smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification as compared to some of our larger competitors. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market areas and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is subject to the conditions of the economies in which we operate and weakness in those economies and the real estate markets may materially and adversely affect us. Our success is dependent to a large extent upon the general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate. Although our asset-based lending, mortgage origination and commercial equipment finance businesses are national in scope, our commercial banking and commercial real estate business focuses primarily on customers in the Chicago area. Accordingly, local economic conditions in the Chicago area have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Our operating results in the recent past have been negatively impacted by the historically high level of nonperforming loans in our commercial loan portfolio. Although showing signs of improvement, challenging economic conditions have and 20Table of Contentsmay continue to have a material adverse effect on us, including elevated provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs compared to historical norms, lower net interest income caused by heightened nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs relative to historical norms. In addition, we may be required to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Adverse conditions in the economies in which we operate could also reduce demand for new loans and other financial services and impair our ability to attract and retain deposits. Further, the repayment of our loan portfolio is dependent on the financial success and viability of our borrowers. If the economies in which we operate do not continue to improve, or even if they do, our borrowers may experience depressed or decreased revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans, which in turn would adversely affect us. Our business is subject to domestic and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could materially and adversely affect us. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although general economic conditions have improved, certain sectors remain weak, and unemployment remains at high levels, including within the Chicago area. In addition, local governments and many businesses continue to experience serious difficulty due to depressed levels of consumer spending and decreased liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the DIF, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of customers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment not only in the markets where we operate, but also in the state of Illinois generally and in the U.S. as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors: economic growth; efficient capital markets; low inflation; low unemployment; high business and investor confidence; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, although showing signs of improvement, the business environment in recent years was unfavorable for many households and businesses in the U.S. While economic conditions in the Chicago area, the state of Illinois and the U.S. have generally improved since the recession, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or occur at a meaningful rate. Such conditions could materially and adversely affect us. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, including the use of models, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and which may differ from actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and general reporting practices within the financial services industry, which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Some accounting policies, such as those pertaining to our allowance for loan losses and deferred tax asset and the necessity of any related valuation allowance, and the valuation of derivatives, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments under different assumptions or conditions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in subsequent periods. We must manage credit risk and if we are unable to do so, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Making loans is a substantial part of our business, and each loan we make is generally subject to the risk that it will not be repaid or that any underlying collateral in the case of a secured loan will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Among other things, the risk of non-payment is affected by:•changes in economic, market and industry conditions; •the credit risks associated with the particular borrower and type of loan; •cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; 21Table of Contents•the duration of the loan; and •opportunities to identify potential loan repayment issues when remedial action may be most effective. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is established through an accounting reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is adequate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes. Deterioration in or stagnation of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and any underlying collateral, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, our federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and, based on judgments that may differ from those of our management, may require an increase in our provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. Further, if loan charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on us. See the section captioned "Allowance for Loan Losses" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report for further discussion related to the process for determining the appropriate level of our allowance for loan losses. We have counterparty risk and therefore we may be materially and adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be materially and negatively affected by the actions and the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are generally interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, credit or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions may expose us to credit or other risks if another financial institution experiences adverse circumstances. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to fully cover the risk that a counterparty defaults on its obligations, which may cause us to experience losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to lending concentration risks. We have focused on repositioning our portfolio to reduce our exposure to industries and sectors that we no longer consider economically desirable. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 92% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans of which approximately 33% were commercial real estate loans. Our commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and, therefore, have the potential for higher losses on an individual loan basis. Credit quality issues on larger commercial loans, if they were to occur, could cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans, and the amount of charge-offs and recoveries between periods. The deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans, which would have a material adverse impact on us. The problems that have occurred in the residential real estate and mortgage markets throughout much of the U.S. in the recent past also affected the commercial real estate market. In our market areas, we generally experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers relative to historical norms, and despite recent improvements in certain economic metrics, a level of uncertainty continues to exist in the economy and credit markets, and there can be no guarantee that we will not experience further deterioration in the performance of commercial real estate and other real estate loans in the future. In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or capital levels. We are subject to mortgage asset concentration risks.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 28% of our assets are mortgage related. This includes residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage loans held in portfolio, MSRs and other mortgage related assets. Of our mortgage-related securities, 99.4% were issued by a government sponsored enterprise, such as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac. Although the business purposes for our exposure to these different types of mortgage-related assets are varied, these assets may share exposure to common risks, such as interest rate risk and general economic conditions and events such as a significant housing market downturn, and therefore their values may be very highly correlated. An unfavorable change in the overall economic environment could affect borrowers' ability to repay their loans which could materially adversely affect us either directly through our mortgage business or indirectly through our mortgage-backed securities holdings. In addition, significant changes 22Table of Contentsin interest rates or the occurrence of an event that adversely affects mortgage related assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business strategy is dependent on our continued ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in senior management and customer relationship positions. We believe our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in key senior management and other positions. Competition for experienced personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly qualified relationship manager that will serve as the customer's key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a "trusted advisor" for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Loss of key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of our competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial and results of operations.Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to us from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators, ratings agencies and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could adversely impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships. New and less mature lines of business, new products and services or new customer relationships may subject us to certain additional risks. From time to time, we will consider and may enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services and we are continually entering into new customer relationships. These activities can involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and we can give no assurance that our projected price and profitability targets will be attainable or that our efforts will be successful. These initiatives have required and will continue to require us to enter geographical markets that are new to us. In addition, new lines and less mature of business, new products and services and new customer relationships could significantly impact the effectiveness of our system of internal controls, and present requirements for legal compliance with which we were previously unfamiliar. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on us. We may experience difficulties in managing our future growth. Our future success in part, depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that result in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers who currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our commercial banking strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, we would be materially harmed. Our success will also depend in part on continued growth in our mortgage banking business. Although we believe that we have the necessary resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, our growth strategy exposes us to certain risks and expenses, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future, and we may engage in banking center expansion. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that our regulators will permit us to implement an acquisition strategy. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve a level of profitability that will justify the investment that we made in any such acquisition. We and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws and changes in interpretation of existing laws. Our financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing federal and state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation has and likely will continue to occur. Enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on us. 23Table of ContentsRegulatory requirements recently adopted by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to implement Basel III, growth plans or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At December 31, 2013, both we and the Bank were categorized as "well-capitalized" under the applicable regulatory capital framework. To the extent regulatory requirements change (including, but not limited to the effectiveness of the recently adopted Basel III Rule) our future operating results erode capital or we seek to expand through loan growth or acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital in any such event would depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. The inability to attract new capital investment, or to attract capital on terms acceptable to us, could have a material adverse impact on us. If we or the Bank fail to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, we or the Bank may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities to becoming subject to informal or formal supervisory actions by our regulators. If any of these were to occur, such actions could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2008. In addition, regulatory restrictions and liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to make distributions on our outstanding securities. Historically, our primary source of funds at the holding company level has been dividends received from the Bank. In order to preserve capital, our board of directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Current and future liquidity constraints at the holding company level could continue to impair our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common or preferred stock or pay interest on our outstanding debt securities in the future. We also have agreed, consistent with our past practice, to continue to provide the Federal Reserve and the IDFPR with notice before we declare dividends on our common or preferred stock or pay interest on our debt securities. If we are unable to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future, the market value of such securities may be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 