ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Future results may be affected by certain risks and uncertainties including the following: WE ARE CURRENTLY BEING INVESTIGATED BY THE SEC. We and Carey Financial, our wholly-owned broker-dealer subsidiary, are currently subject to an SEC investigation into payments made to third party broker dealers in connection with the distribution of REITs managed by us and other matters. Although no regulatory action has been initiated against us or Carey Financial in connection with the matters being investigated, we expect that the SEC may pursue an action in the future. The potential timing of any such action and the nature of the relief or remedies the SEC may seek cannot be predicted at this time. If such an action is brought, it could materially affect us. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings for a discussion of this investigation. THE REVENUE STREAMS FROM THE INVESTMENT ADVISORY AGREEMENTS WITH THE CPA® REITS ARE SUBJECT TO LIMITATION OR CANCELLATION. The agreements under which we provide investment advisory services may generally be terminated by each CPA® REIT upon 60 days’ notice, with or without cause. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be terminated. A termination without cause may, however, entitle us to termination revenue, equal to 15% of the amount by which the net fair value of the relevant CPA® REIT’s assets exceeds the remaining amount necessary to provide investors with total distributions equal to their investment plus a preferred return. Nonetheless, any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR CAPITAL RAISING ABILITY FOR THE CPA® REITS HAS RELIED HEAVILY ON ONE SELECTED-DEALER AND ONE FUND-RAISING METHOD. We have in the past relied predominantly on raising funds from individual investors through the sale by participating selected dealers to their customers of publicly-registered, non-traded securities of the CPA® REITs . Currently, there is only one major selected dealer with whom we are negotiating concerning bringing CPA®:16 — Global’s second offering to market. Certain payments made to this selected dealer in connection with the distribution of our CPA® REIT offerings to investors are a subject of the SEC investigation described under Item 3-Legal Proceedings. Any failure to reach agreement with this selected dealer could severely limit, at least in the near term, our ability to increase assets under management and prevent CPA®:16 — Global from having additional funds available for new investments. Also, to the extent that, as a result of either changes in market receptivity to investments that are not readily liquid and involve high selected dealer fees, or for other reasons, this capital raising method were to become less available as a source of capital, our ability to raise funds for CPA® REIT programs, and consequently our ability to make investments on their behalf, could be adversely affected. While we are not limited to this particular method of raising funds for investment (and, among other things, the 12 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC CPA® REITs may themselves be able to borrow additional funds to invest), our experience with other means of raising capital is limited. OUR MANAGEMENT SERVICES OPERATIONS EXPOSES US TO MORE VOLATILITY IN EARNINGS THAN OUR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT BUSINESS. The growth in revenue from the management services operations is dependent in large part on future capital raising in existing or future managed entities, as well as on our ability to make investments that meet the investment criteria of these entities, both of which are subject to uncertainty, including with respect to capital market and real estate market conditions. This uncertainty can create more volatility in our earnings because of the resulting increased volatility in transaction based revenue from the management services operations as compared to revenue from ownership of real estate subject to triple-net leases, which historically has been less volatile. As discussed above, asset management revenue may be affected by factors that include not only our ability to increase the CPA® REITs’ portfolio of properties under management, but also changes in valuation of those properties, as well as sales (through planned liquidation or otherwise) of CPA® REIT properties. In addition, revenue from the management services operations, including our ability to earn performance revenue, as well as the value of our holdings of CPA® REIT interests and dividend income from those interests, may be significantly affected by the results of operations of the CPA® REITs. Each of the CPA® REITs has invested substantially all of its assets (other than short-term investments) in triple-net leased properties substantially similar to those we hold, and consequently the results of operations of, and cash available for distribution by, each of the CPA® REITs, is likely to be substantially affected by the same market conditions, and subject to the same risk factors, as the properties we own. Four of the prior thirteen CPA® funds temporarily reduced the rate of distributions to their investors as a result of adverse developments involving tenants. Each of the CPA® REITs we currently advise and manage may also incur significant debt. This significant debt load could restrict their ability to pay revenue owed to us when due, due to either liquidity problems or restrictive covenants contained in their borrowing agreements. In addition, the revenue payable under each of our current advisory agreements is subject to a variable annual cap based on a formula tied to the assets and income of that CPA® REIT. This cap may limit the growth of our management revenue. Furthermore, our ability to earn revenue related to the disposition of properties is primarily tied to providing liquidity events for CPA® REIT investors. Our ability to provide that liquidity, and to do so under circumstances that will satisfy the applicable subordination requirements, will depend on market conditions at the relevant time, which may vary considerably over a period of years. In any case, such liquidity events typically occur several years apart, and our management services operations income is likely to be significantly higher in those years in which such events occur. OUR INVESTMENT STRATEGY CURRENTLY FOCUSES PREDOMINANTLY ON A SINGLE TYPE OF INVESTMENT. Substantially all of our and the CPA® REITs’ current investments, as well as the majority of the investments we expect to originate for the CPA® REITs in 2006, are investments in single-tenant commercial properties that are subject to triple-net leases. Numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or accounting rules, may make these types of investments less attractive to potential sellers and lessees, and additional factors, including risk-weighted rates of return relative to other investments, may result in changes in investor preferences that could negatively affect our ability to increase the amount of assets of this type under management. ADVERSE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTING REAL ESTATE VALUES COULD HAVE A DISPROPORTIONATELY ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. While the revenues from our leases and those of the CPA® REITs are not directly dependent upon the value of the real estate we own, significant declines in real estate values could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including a decline in the residual values of properties at lease expiration; possible lease abandonments by tenants; a decline in the attractiveness of REIT investments that may impede our ability to raise new funds for investment by CPA® REITs; and a decline in the attractiveness of triple-net lease transactions to potential sellers. THE INABILITY OF A TENANT IN A SINGLE TENANT PROPERTY TO PAY RENT WILL REDUCE OUR REVENUES. Most of our properties are occupied by a single tenant and, therefore, the success of our investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants negatively impact our net income and reduce the amounts available for distributions to shareholders. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting the investment and re-leasing the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. 13 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC WE DEPEND ON MAJOR TENANTS. Revenues from several of our tenants and/or their guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our net leasing revenues. Our five largest tenants/guarantors, represented approximately 28% of total net leasing revenues in 2005, 30% in 2004 and 31% in 2003. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of these tenants could cause interruptions in the receipt of lease revenues from these tenants and/or result in vacancies in the respective properties, which would reduce our revenues at least until the affected property is re-leased, and could decrease the ultimate sale value of each such property. A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR LEASES WILL EXPIRE WITHIN THE NEXT SIX YEARS. Within the next six years, approximately 63% of our leases are due to expire. If such leases are not renewed, or if the properties cannot be re-leased on terms that yield payments comparable to those currently being received, then our lease revenues could be substantially adversely affected. The terms of any new or renewed leases of these properties may depend on market conditions prevailing at the time of lease expiration. In addition, if properties are vacated by the current tenants, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to re-lease such properties. We may also seek to sell such properties, in which event we may incur losses, depending upon market conditions prevailing at the time of sale. IF OUR TENANTS ARE HIGHLY LEVERAGED, THEY MAY HAVE A GREATER POSSIBILITY OF FILING FOR BANKRUPTCY. Of tenants that experience downturns in their operating results due to adverse changes to their business or economic conditions, those that are highly leveraged may have a higher possibility of filing for bankruptcy. In bankruptcy, a tenant has the option of vacating a property instead of paying rent. We have highly leveraged tenants at this time, and we may have additional highly leveraged tenants in the future. THE BANKRUPTCY OF TENANTS MAY CAUSE A REDUCTION IN REVENUE. Bankruptcy of a tenant could cause the loss of lease payments as well as an increase in the costs incurred to carry the property. Under bankruptcy law, a tenant who is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings has the option of continuing or terminating any unexpired lease. If the tenant terminates the lease, any claim we have for breach of the lease (excluding collateral securing the claim) will be treated as a general unsecured claim. The maximum claim will be capped at the amount owed for unpaid rent prior to the bankruptcy unrelated to the termination, plus the greater of one year’s lease payments or 15% of the remaining lease payments payable under the lease (but no more than three years’ lease payments). In addition, a bankruptcy court could recharacterize a net lease transaction as a secured lending transaction. If that were to occur, we would not be treated as the owner of the property, but might have additional rights as a secured creditor. We have had tenants file for bankruptcy protection and are involved in bankruptcy-related litigation. OUR TENANTS GENERALLY MAY NOT HAVE A RECOGNIZED CREDIT RATING, AND MAY HAVE A HIGHER RISK OF LEASE DEFAULTS THAN IF OUR TENANTS HAD A RECOGNIZED CREDIT RATING. Credit rating agencies may not evaluate or rank the debt or the credit risk of our tenants, as we seek tenants that we believe will have improving credit profiles that have not been recognized by the traditional credit market. Our long-term leases with certain of these tenants may therefore pose a higher risk of default than normal long-term leases with tenants whose credit potential has already been recognized by the market. OUR SALE-LEASEBACK AGREEMENTS MAY PERMIT TENANTS TO PURCHASE A PROPERTY AT A PREDETERMINED PRICE, WHICH COULD LIMIT OUR REALIZATION OF ANY APPRECIATION OR RESULT IN A LOSS. In some circumstances, we grant tenants a right to purchase the property leased by the tenant. The purchase price may be a fixed price or it may be based on a formula. If a tenant exercises its right to purchase the property and the property’s market value has increased beyond that price, we would be limited in fully realizing the appreciation on that property. Additionally, if the price at which the tenant can purchase the property is less than our purchase price or carrying value (for example, where the purchase price is based on an appraised value), we may incur a loss. WE MAY RECOGNIZE SUBSTANTIAL IMPAIRMENT CHARGES ON PROPERTIES WE OWN. Historically, we have incurred substantial impairment charges, which we are required to recognize whenever we sell a property for less than its carrying value, or we determine that the property has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in its carrying value (or, for direct financing leases, that the unguaranteed residual value of the underlying property has declined). For properties acquired in our 1998 consolidation with nine CPA® limited partnerships, their carrying value may reflect their appraised value at that time, rather than their original cost of acquisition by the CPA® limited partnership. By their nature, such impairment charges are not predictable. We may incur such impairment charges in the future, which may reduce our net income, although it will not necessarily affect our cash flow from operations. 14 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC WE CAN BORROW A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF FUNDS. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, indebtedness (collateralized and unsecured) in furtherance of our activities. Neither our operating agreement nor any policy statement formally adopted by our board of directors limits either the total amount of indebtedness or the specified percentage of indebtedness (based upon our total market capitalization) that may be incurred. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. Our current unsecured revolving credit facility contains various covenants that limit the amount of secured and unsecured indebtedness we may incur. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REFINANCE BALLOON PAYMENTS ON OUR MORTGAGE DEBTS. Some of our financing may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make balloon payments on debt will depend upon our ability either to refinance the obligation when due, invest additional equity in the property or to sell the related property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available mortgage rates, our equity in the mortgaged properties, our financial condition, the operating history of the mortgaged properties and tax laws. A refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to shareholders. Scheduled balloon payments for the next five years are as follows: 2006 $ 4,333 (1) 2007 $ 15,541 (2) 2008 $ 5,000 2009 $ 26,755 2010 $ 6,742 (1) Excludes our pro rata share of mortgage obligations of equity investees totaling $10,299. (2) Does not include amounts that will be due upon maturity of credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, we had $15,000 drawn from the line of credit under our credit facility. INVESTMENTS IN PROPERTIES OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES SUBJECT US TO FOREIGN CURRENCY RISKS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT DISTRIBUTIONS. We are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We attempt to mitigate a portion of the risk of currency fluctuation by financing our properties in the local currencies. Changes in the relation of any such foreign currency to U.S. dollars may affect our revenues, operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and the amount of shareholders’ equity. Although we have not done so to date, we anticipate that in the future we may engage in direct hedging activities to mitigate the risks of exchange rate fluctuations. INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS. We have invested in and may continue to invest in properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors particular to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States, including: – Changing governmental rules and policies; – Enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of property and laws relating to the ability of foreign entities to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the United States; – Expropriation; – The difficulty in conforming obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; – Adverse market conditions caused by changes in national or local economic or political conditions; – Tax requirements vary by country and we may be subject to additional taxes as a result of our international investments; – Changes in relative interest rates; – Changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; – Changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; 15 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC – Changes in land use and zoning laws; and – More stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws. WE MAY INCUR COSTS TO FINISH BUILD-TO-SUIT PROPERTIES. We may sometimes acquire undeveloped or partially developed land parcels for the purpose of owning to-be-built facilities for a prospective tenant. Oftentimes, completion risk, cost overruns and on-time delivery are the obligations of the prospective tenant. To the extent that the tenant or the third-party developer experiences financial difficulty or other complications during the construction process we may be required to incur project costs to complete all or part of the project within a specified time frame. The incurrence of these costs or the non-occupancy by the tenant may reduce the project’s and our portfolio returns. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY RE-LEASING OR SELLING OUR PROPERTIES. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid compared to most financial assets and this illiquidity will limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The net leases we may enter into or acquire may be for properties that are specially suited to the particular needs of the tenant. With these properties, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property or to make rent concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In addition, if we are forced to sell the property, it may be difficult to sell to a party other than the tenant due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed. These and other limitations, such as a property’s location and/or local economic conditions, may affect our ability to re-lease or sell properties without adversely affecting returns to shareholders. See Our Portfolio section above for scheduled lease expirations. OUR PARTICIPATION IN JOINT VENTURES CREATES ADDITIONAL RISK. We may participate in joint ventures or invest in properties jointly with other entities, some of which may be unaffiliated with us. There are additional risks involved in these types of transactions. These risks include the potential of our joint venture partner becoming bankrupt and the possibility of diverging or inconsistent economic or business interests of our partner and us. These diverging interests could result in, among other things, exposing us to liabilities of the joint venture in excess of our proportionate share of these liabilities. The partition rights of each owner in a jointly owned property could reduce the value of each portion of the divided property. In addition, the fiduciary obligation that we may owe to our partner in an affiliated transaction may make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights. WE DO NOT FULLY CONTROL THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR PROPERTIES. The tenants or managers of net lease properties are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of the properties. If a property is not adequately maintained in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease, we may incur expenses for deferred maintenance expenditures or other liabilities once the property becomes free of the lease. While our leases generally provide for recourse against the tenant in such instances, a bankrupt or financially troubled tenant may be more likely to defer maintenance and also more difficult to enforce remedies against. In addition, to the extent tenants are unable to conduct their operation of the property on a financially successful basis, their ability to pay rent may be adversely affected. Although we endeavor to monitor, on an ongoing basis, compliance by tenants with their lease obligations and other factors that could affect the financial performance of our properties, such monitoring may not in all circumstances ascertain or forestall deterioration either in the condition of a property or the financial circumstances of a tenant. WE ARE SUBJECT TO POSSIBLE LIABILITIES RELATING TO ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We own commercial properties and are subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws. These responsibilities and liabilities also exist for properties owned by the CPA® REITs and if they become liable for these costs, their ability to pay for our services could be materially affected. Some of these laws could impose the following on us: – Responsibility and liability for the cost of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our property, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants; – Liability for the costs of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of such substances; – Potential liability for common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs of environmental contaminants; and – Claims being made against us by the CPA® REITs for inadequate due diligence. 16 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances, or for third-party claims for damages, may be substantial. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances at any of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. While we will attempt to mitigate identified environmental risks by requiring tenants contractually to acknowledge their responsibility for complying with environmental laws and to assume liability for environmental matters, circumstances may arise in which a tenant fails, or is unable, to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, environmental liabilities, or costs or operating limitations imposed on a tenant to comply with environmental laws, could affect its ability to make rental payments to us. OUR USE OF DEBT TO FINANCE INVESTMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW. Most of our investments are made by borrowing a portion of the total investment and securing the loan with a mortgage on the property. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment which in turn could cause the value of our portfolio, and revenues available for distribution to our shareholders to be reduced. We generally borrow on a limited recourse basis to limit our exposure on any property to the amount of equity invested in the property. There is no limitation on the amount which we can borrow on a single property. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MAKE INVESTMENTS ON AN ADVANTAGEOUS BASIS. A significant element of our business strategy is the enhancement of our portfolio and the CPA® REIT portfolios through new investments. The consummation of any future investment will be subject to satisfactory completion of our analysis and due diligence review and to the negotiation of definitive documentation. There can be no assurance that we or the CPA® REITs will be able to identify and invest in additional properties or will be able to finance investments in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such investment, if consummated, will be profitable for us or the CPA® REITs. If we are unable to consummate new investments in the future on our own behalf or that of the CPA® REITs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the cash available for distribution to our shareholders, either through net income on investments we own or through net income generated by the management services business. OUR PORTFOLIO GROWTH IS CONSTRAINED BY OUR OBLIGATIONS TO OFFER PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS TO THE CPA® REITs. Under our advisory agreements with the CPA® REITs, we are required to use our best efforts to present a continuing and suitable investment program to them. In recent years, new property investment opportunities have generally been made available by us to the CPA® REITs. While the allocation of new investments to the CPA® REITs fulfills our duty to present a continuing and suitable investment program, and enhances the revenues from our management services business, it also restricts the potential growth of revenues from our real estate operations. WE MAY SUFFER UNINSURED LOSSES. There are certain types of losses (such as due to wars or some natural disasters) that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the limits of our insurance occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely affect our financial condition. CHANGES IN MARKET INTEREST RATES COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO GO DOWN. The trading prices of equity securities issued by real estate companies have historically been affected by changes in broader market interest rates, with increases in interest rates resulting in decreases in trading prices, and decreases in interest rates resulting in increases in such trading prices. An increase in market interest rates could therefore adversely affect the trading prices of any equity securities issued by us. The stock price could also be affected by factors other than changes in interest rates, including the various risk factors discussed herein. 17 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION. In raising funds for investment by the CPA® REITs, we face competition from other funds with similar investment objectives that seek to raise funds from investors through publicly registered, non-traded funds, publicly-traded funds, or private funds. Any change in the attractiveness to investors of an investment in the type of property principally held by the CPA® REITs, relative to other types of investments, could adversely affect our ability to raise funds for future investments, which in turn could ultimately reduce, or limit the growth of, revenues from our management services business. We also face competition for the acquisition of office and industrial properties in general, and such properties net leased to major corporations in particular, from many sources, including insurance companies, credit companies, pension funds, private individuals, financial institutions, finance companies and investment companies. We also face competition from institutions that provide or arrange for other types of commercial financing through private or public offerings of equity or debt or traditional bank financings. These institutions may accept greater risk or lower returns, allowing them to offer more attractive terms to prospective tenants. In addition, our evaluation of the acceptability of rates of return on behalf of the CPA® REITs is affected by such factors as the cost of raising capital, the amount of revenue we can earn and the performance hurdle rates of the relevant CPA® REITs. Thus, the effect of the cost of raising capital and the revenue we can earn may be to limit the amount of new investments we make on behalf of the CPA® REITs, which will in turn limit the growth of revenues from our management services business. A POTENTIAL CHANGE IN UNITED STATES ACCOUNTING STANDARDS REGARDING OPERATING LEASES MAY MAKE THE LEASING OF FACILITIES LESS ATTRACTIVE TO OUR POTENTIAL DOMESTIC TENANTS, WHICH COULD REDUCE OVERALL DEMAND FOR OUR LEASING SERVICES. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 13, Accounting for Leases, if the present value of a company’s minimum lease payments equals 90% or more of a property’s fair value, the lease is classified as a capital lease, and the lease obligation is included as a liability on the company’s balance sheet. However, if the present value of the minimum lease payments is less than 90% of the property’s value, the lease is considered an operating lease, and the obligation does not appear on the company’s balance sheet, but rather in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant’s balance sheet. The SEC has conducted a study of off-balance-sheet financing, including leasing, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board has recently indicated that it is considering addressing the issue. If the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. This could adversely affect our ability to consummate new investments in the future on behalf of the CPA® REITs or on our own behalf, which in turn could adversely affect our financial results. THE VALUE OF OUR REAL ESTATE IS SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATION. We are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of real estate. In particular, we face the risk that lease revenue from the properties will be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness we incur. Additional real estate ownership risks include: – Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions, – Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties, – Changes in interest rates and operating expenses, – Competition for tenants, – Changes in market rental rates, – Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases, – Renewal of leases at lower rental rates, – Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy, – Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate, – Uninsured property liability, property damage or casualty losses, – Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, and – Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. 18 Table of Contents W. P. CAREY & CO. LLC WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL FOR OUR FUTURE SUCCESS. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of these executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. OUR GOVERNING DOCUMENTS AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE MAY DISCOURAGE A TAKEOVER. William P. Carey, Chairman, is the beneficial owner of approximately 34% of our outstanding shares. The provisions of our Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement and the share ownership of Mr. Carey may discourage a tender offer for our shares or a hostile takeover, even though these may be attractive to shareholders. COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT MAY REQUIRE US TO SPEND SUBSTIANTIAL AMOUNTS OF MONEY WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All of our properties must comply with the applicable portions of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the related regulations, rules and orders, commonly referred to as the ADA, or similar applicable foreign laws. The ADA, for example, has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. If we fail to comply with the ADA and other applicable laws, the U.S. or foreign government might impose fines on us and award damages to individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local and foreign fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements could require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to comply with these requirements may also affect the marketability of the properties. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or our ability to pay distributions at the current rate could be materially adversely affected by the above conditions. The risk factors may have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual operating and financial results and could cause such results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should not consider this list exhaustive. New risk factors emerge periodically, and we cannot completely assure you that the factors described above list all material risks to us at any specific point in time. We have disclosed many of the important risk factors discussed above in our previous filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 