ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORSAn investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also materially and adversely impair our business operations. The value of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.Risks Relating to Our Business Various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is sufficient to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. We continue to monitor the adequacy of our loan loss allowance and may need to increase it if economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we may need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and a reduction in capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our loan portfolio is concentrated in certain markets which could result in increased credit risk.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Phoenix metropolitan areas. The regional economic conditions in areas where we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Our loan portfolio mix, which has a concentration of loans secured by real estate, could result in increased credit risk. A significant portion of our portfolio is secured by real estate and thus we face a high degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. If real estate values would decline further in our markets, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans for which the primary reliance for repayment is on the real estate collateral by foreclosing and selling that real estate would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.Additionally, because Kansas is a judicial foreclosure state, all foreclosures must be processed through the Kansas state courts. Due to this process, it takes approximately one year for us to foreclose on real estate collateral located in the State of Kansas. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans secured by Kansas property may be delayed and our recovery efforts are lengthened due to this process.Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2011 fiscal year, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for loans we acquired in FDIC assisted transactions. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not then effective. During the second quarter of 2012, management completed the actions which it believes were necessary to remediate this material weakness. Although we believe that this material weakness has been remediated, there can be no assurance that similar weaknesses will not occur in the future which could adversely affect our future results of operations or our stock price.8We face potential risks from litigation brought against the Company and the Bank. We are from time to time involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. As discussed in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, the Bank, along with other co-defendants, including a former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank's trust division, has been named as a defendant in two lawsuits filed by clients, or purported clients, of the Bank's trust division who invested in promissory notes issued by Distinctive Properties (UK) Limited, a company involved in the purchase and development of real estate in the United Kingdom. In one of the lawsuits, the plaintiffs allege that the investments in the notes were part of a multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme. The Company has also been named as a defendant in a lawsuit by a stockholder in a purported class action claim arising from the restatement of our 2010 and 2011 financial statements. While we cannot with certainty determine the potential outcome of this or any other pending or threatened litigation against the Company or the Bank, litigation-related costs and any legal liability as a result of an adverse determination with respect to one or more of these legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial position and results of operations and could cause us significant reputational harm, including without limitation as a result of negative publicity the Company may face even if it prevails in such legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our business prospects.Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investment securities and other sources could have a substantial material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts that are adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, our failure to remain well capitalized, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume.If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. As of December 31, 2012, the Company did not carry a valuation allowance against its deferred tax asset balance of $21.8 million. Future facts and circumstances may require a valuation allowance. Charges to establish a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.If the Bank incurs losses that erode its capital, it may become subject to enhanced regulation or supervisory action. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the Missouri Division of Finance and the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as insurer of the Bank's deposits, have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions if the Bank's capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of future operating losses, or if its bank regulators determine that it has insufficient capital. Among other matters, the corrective actions include but are not limited to requiring affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; directing an increase in capital and the maintenance of specific minimum capital ratios; restricting the Bank's operations; limiting the rate of interest the bank may pay on brokered deposits; restricting the amount of distributions and dividends and payment of interest on its trust preferred securities; requiring 9the Bank to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and enjoin unsafe and unsound practices; removing officers and directors and assessing civil monetary penalties; and taking possession of and closing and liquidating the Bank. Changes in government regulation and supervision may increase our costs. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums might adversely impact our earnings. Over the past several years, the FDIC has adopted several rules which have resulted in a number of changes to the FDIC assessments, including modification of the assessment system and a special assessment. It is possible that the FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future or further increase our annual assessment, which could adversely affect our earnings. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different institutions and counterparties, and we execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including federal home loan banks, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in prior years and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We have engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, which could negatively affect our business and earnings. Our earnings, financial condition, and prospects after a merger or acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired company. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.Acquiring other banks or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:•potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;•exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;•difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;•potential disruption to our business;•potential diversion of our management's time and attention;•the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;•difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; and•potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.10We periodically evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place, and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, reimbursements of losses from the FDIC, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, to the extent that we issue capital stock in connection with transactions, such transactions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share of our common stock and share ownership of our stockholders. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. Although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee's skills, knowledge of our market, and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to support any additional provisions for loan losses and loan charge-offs, to maintain our capital ratios, or for other reasons. The condition of the financial markets may be such that we may not be able to obtain additional capital, or the additional capital may only be available on terms that are not attractive to us. Recently enacted financial reform legislation and rules promulgated thereunder may adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), and will require the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new rules. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital, but the Company's currently outstanding trust preferred securities will be grandfathered, subject to the potential changes from Basel III reforms. The CFPB has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act and the resulting regulations will likely affect the Company's business and operations in other ways which are difficult to predict at this time. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations will result in additional costs, which may adversely impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, any of which may impact the market price of the Company's common stock.The Federal Reserve has proposed new capital requirements for financial institutions which, if adopted in their current form, may require us to retain or raise additional capital or and/or reduce dividends.As previously disclosed, on June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a notice of proposed rulemaking on increased regulatory capital requirements, implementing changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act and portions of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms. 11While the regulations may change before adoption in their final form, the proposed capital requirements for bank holding companies may require us to retain or raise additional capital, restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock and/or require other changes to our strategic plans. While these proposed rules have not become final and the proposed implementation dates have been delayed indefinitely, we are analyzing the proposed capital regulations and the effect they would have on us and our business.A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and adversely impact our earnings.As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our Internet banking system, treasury management products, check and document imaging, remote deposit capture systems, ,general ledger, and other systems. The security and integrity of our systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets. We cannot assure you that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures. Additionally, we face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance.Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:•actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;•changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;•failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;•speculation in the press or investment community;•strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;•actions by institutional stockholders;•fluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of our competitors;•general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;•proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;•anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or•domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility over the last several years. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and 12prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified in this annual report and other reports by the Company. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength or operating results. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation.An investment in our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment.An investment in our common stock is not a savings account, deposit or other obligation of our bank subsidiary, any non-bank subsidiary or any other bank, and such investment is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations and depends primarily on the Bank's ability to distribute funds to us, and is also limited by various statutes and regulations. The Company depends on payments from the Bank, including dividends, management fees and payments under tax sharing agreements, for substantially all of the Company's revenue. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends and the amount of payments that the Bank may make to the Company under tax sharing agreements. In certain circumstances, the Missouri Division of Finance, FDIC, or Federal Reserve could restrict or prohibit the Bank from distributing dividends or making other payments to us. In the event that the Bank was restricted from paying dividends to the Company or making payments under the tax sharing agreement, the Company may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. If we are unable or determine not to pay dividends on our outstanding equity securities, the market price of such securities could be materially adversely affected.There can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock.Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities.In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our employee stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock could incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market after an offering or the perception that such sales could occur.Our outstanding debt securities restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. We have outstanding subordinated debentures issued to statutory trust subsidiaries, which have issued and sold preferred securities in the Trusts to investors.If we are unable to make payments on any of our subordinated debentures for more than 20 consecutive quarters, we would be in default under the governing agreements for such securities and the amounts due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Additionally, if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures (which will be used to make distributions on the trust preferred securities), or if for any interest payment period we do not pay interest in respect of the subordinated debentures, or if any other event of default occurs, then we generally will be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends or other distributions, or redeeming, purchasing or acquiring, any of our capital securities, including the common stock, during the next succeeding interest payment period applicable to any of the subordinated debentures, or next succeeding interest payment period, as the case may be.13Moreover, any other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the common stock. In the event that our existing or future financing agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends in cash on the common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the common stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. In addition, if we are unable or determine not to pay interest on our subordinated debentures, the market price of our common stock could be materially or adversely affected.Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws, as well as various provisions of federal and Missouri state law applicable to bank and bank holding companies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock which could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In the event of a proposed merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company, our board of directors would have the ability to readily issue available shares of preferred stock as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such issuance could occur whether or not our stockholders favorably view the merger, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of the Company. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future.ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTSNot applicable.