Item 1A. Risk Factors You should read carefully and consider the following risks and uncertainties because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the protection of depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve. The Bank, as an Illinois-chartered member bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the IDFPR and by the Federal Reserve. We undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. Our failure to comply with state and federal regulations can lead to, among other things, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully satisfy the requirements imposed by the regulatory authorities that supervise us. Further, we are significantly impacted by the policies of the Federal Reserve, whose monetary policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2008. In addition, regulatory restrictions and liquidity constraints at the holding company level could impair our ability to make distributions on our outstanding securities. Historically, our primary source of funds at the holding company level has been dividends received from the Bank. Currently, both we and the Bank have agreed to give notice to the Federal Reserve and the IDFPR prior to declaring a dividend on our common stock. In order to preserve capital, our Board of Directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Current and future liquidity constraints at the holding company level could continue to impair our ability to declare and pay dividends or 12 Table of Contents interest on our outstanding securities in the future. We also have agreed, consistent with our past practice, to continue to provide our regulators notice before we pay dividends and interest at the holding company. The UST may also impose additional limitations on our ability to use funds we received from our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) CPP, including the payment of dividends or interest on our outstanding securities. For example, we are currently prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock without the UST’s consent until the earlier of November 21, 2012 or the date on which the UST no longer holds any shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, (“Series B Preferred”). If we are unable to pay dividends or interest on our outstanding securities in the future, the market value of such securities may be materially adversely affected. Our regulators could require us to maintain additional regulatory capital. At December 31, 2010, both we and our Bank were categorized as “well capitalized” under the regulatory capital framework. Our regulators have the ability to require us to maintain higher capital levels. If our regulators require the Bank to hold additional capital above the well capitalized level, we would either have to make an additional capital contribution to the Bank, have the Bank raise regulatory capital or reduce our asset levels. The inability to attract new capital investments or our ability to attract the capital on terms acceptable to us, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position, including our ability to use net operating loss carry-forwards to reduce future income tax payments if we increase our capital levels and an ownership change is deemed to have occurred for income tax purposes. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values under various liquidation scenarios, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, the impact of competition on our underwriting terms, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our commercial loans and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risk than residential real estate loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of our customers’ businesses, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by the ability of our customers to execute on their business strategies and may be adversely impacted by adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. If our customers are unable to successfully operate their businesses, our actual losses on our commercial loans may exceed our current estimates. Continued negative economic conditions also impacts our bank, bank holding company and lending institution clients with which we have commercial relationships, adversely impacting their ability to repay their loan obligations as agreed. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are exacerbated by the significant uncertainties surrounding not only our borrowers’ probability of default, but also the fair value of the underlying collateral. The current illiquidity in the real estate market has increased the uncertainty with respect to real estate 13 Table of Contents values. Because of this degree of uncertainty and the sensitivity of any valuation to the underlying assumptions as to the method of collateral liquidation and the holding period until sale, our actual losses may significantly vary from our current estimates. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Such regulators may require us to make additional provisions to the allowance, recognize additional loan charge-offs based upon their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examinations, or require us to reduce the level of nonperforming assets. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or result in decreased standing with our regulators, which may result in additional capital requirements. We are subject to lending concentration risks. We have focused on repositioning our portfolio to reduce our exposure to industries and sectors that we no longer consider economically desirable. As a business bank, our loan portfolio is comprised primarily of commercial loans to businesses. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 95% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans of which approximately 40% are commercial real estate loans. Our commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and, therefore, have the potential for higher losses on an individual loan basis. Credit quality issues on larger commercial loans, if they were to occur, could cause greater volatility in reported credit quality performance measures, such as total impaired or nonperforming loans, and the amount of charge-offs and recoveries between periods. The deterioration of any one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in uncollectible loans, which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. New residential home sales continue to be at depressed levels, increasing financial stress on our real estate developer customers. Further deterioration in the credit quality of our Chicago real estate construction loans would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition, results of operations and reputation would be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to respond effectively to unanticipated deposit volatility. As a part of our liquidity management, we must ensure we can respond effectively to potential volatility in our customers’ deposit balances. Since 2008, we improved our liquidity position by increasing the amount of funding from our core customers in order to reduce reliance on brokered funding. We have customers that maintain significant deposit balances, the immediate withdrawal of which could have a material adverse affect on our daily liquidity management. In addition, the number of branches we maintain is small relative to our asset size, which could impact our ability to acquire deposits. We could encounter difficulty meeting a significant deposit outflow, in which case our capital position, reputation or profitability could be negatively affected. We primarily use advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”), broker/dealer repurchase agreements and federal funds purchased to meet our immediate liquidity needs. If we fail to effectively manage the risk of deposit volatility, our business, financial condition and reputation could be materially adversely affected. We must maintain our funding to support our operations and future growth and maintain appropriate levels of liquidity. We must maintain access to sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to what is provided by in-market deposits and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Although we have increased our funding from our core customers to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding, we continue to use brokered money market accounts and certificates of deposits, out-of-local-market certificates of deposit, broker/dealer repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and FHLB and FRB advances as a source of liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Under FDIC regulations, only “well-capitalized institutions” may issue brokered CDs without prior regulatory approval. The Bank is currently categorized as “well-capitalized” and, therefore, may continue to utilize this funding source. Brokered CD distributors may use other criteria in determining which banks to allow to issue brokered CDs through their distribution network. If our access to the brokered CD market were reduced in any material respect, it could lead to an inability to replace brokered deposits at maturity, which would result in higher costs to, or reduced asset levels at, the Bank. Our holding company’s liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity instruments issued by the holding company, capital we inject into the Bank, redemption of debt issued by the holding company, proceeds we raise through the issuance of debt and equity instruments through the holding company, and dividends received from the Bank (if permitted). Our future liquidity position may be materially adversely affected if, in the future, one or a combination of the following events occur: the Bank reports net losses or its earnings are weak relative to our holding company’s cash flow needs; we deem it advisable or are required by our regulators to use cash at the holding company to support loan growth of the Bank or address other capital needs of the Bank through downstream capital injections; or we have difficulty raising cash at the holding company level through the issuance of debt or equity instruments or accessing additional sources of credit. Given the losses recorded in 2009 and 2010 by the Bank and the resulting limitations imposed by our regulators on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to our holding company, we are dependent upon our current cash position and cash proceeds generated by capital raises to meet our liquidity needs at the holding company level. If we foresee that the holding company will lack liquidity, we may, to the extent possible, seek to manage this risk by reducing the amount of capital we inject into the Bank. This may further reduce the capital position of the Bank and cause our growth to slow and may be subject to objection by our regulators. Our participation in the TARP CPP may place significant restrictions on our operations. Under the TARP CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock without the UST’s approval until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred has been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares of our common stock and other securities is restricted. The consent of the UST generally is required for us to make any stock repurchases (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until November 21, 2012, unless all of the outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred have been redeemed or transferred by the UST to unaffiliated third parties. Further, we may not repurchase shares of our common stock or shares of our 8.0% Non-Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (“Series C Preferred”), Nonvoting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series D (“Series D Preferred”) and 8.0% Nonvoting, Non-Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E (“Series E Preferred”) if we are in arrears on the payment of Series B Preferred dividends. Due to our participation in the TARP CPP, we are also subject to the UST’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the UST holds our Series B Preferred, as most recently set forth in the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance on June 10, 2009. The compensation standards apply to the five most highly compensated senior executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, and the next 20 most highly compensated of our senior executive officers. The standards include (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value or that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (ii) a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements, earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria; (iii) a prohibition on making “golden parachute payments” to senior executive officers and our next five most highly compensated employees; (iv) an agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for 15 Table of Contents compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year; (v) prohibitions on accruing and paying bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation to our five most highly paid employees other than restricted stock grants that do not fully vest during the TARP period, have a minimum 2-year vesting period and have a value of no more than one-third of the affected employee’s total annual compensation; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation paid to senior executive officers and our next 20 most highly compensated employees previously provided by TARP recipients if found by the UST to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to public interest; (vii) required establishment and posting of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures;” (viii) prohibitions on tax “gross ups” relating to severance, perquisites or other forms of compensation to the senior executive officers and our next 20 most highly compensated employees; (ix) disclosure of perquisites in excess of $25,000 that are paid to employees who are subject to bonus limitations; and (x) inclusion in a participant’s proxy statement for any annual stockholder meeting of a nonbinding “Say on Pay” stockholder vote on the compensation of executives. The restrictions on bonuses and incentive compensation in particular may result in us issuing additional shares of our common stock to compensate our executive officers that likely would result in dilution to our common stockholders, which would have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We are subject to interest rate risk. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest incurred on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., LIBOR and prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, our loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. As part of our asset and liability management process, we perform sensitivity analysis to determine our exposure to changes in interest rate and develop strategies to mitigate this exposure. We attempt to mitigate our interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities and using derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk associated with specific hedged items. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively or our hedge transactions are not effective in mitigating the intended risk, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding or capital on commercially acceptable terms. We are rated by several different rating agencies, including Fitch, IDC, LACE and Bankrate.com. Adverse operating results and other factors may reduce our ratings with these agencies, which could subject us to negative publicity, adversely impact our ability to acquire or retain deposits and increase our cost of borrowing or limit our asset growth. Also, our credit ratings are an important factor to the institutions that provide our sources of liquidity, and reductions in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, credit or other relationships. We regularly engage in transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. These transactions may 16 Table of Contents expose us to certain default risks. In certain circumstances, the collateral that we hold may be insufficient to cover such risks, resulting in losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if an occurrence is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to the conditions of the local economy in which we operate and continued weakness in the local economy and the real estate markets may adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions in the Chicago area, where most of our loans are originated. The ongoing crisis caused by the current economic weakness in the Chicago area real estate market, unemployment, changes in housing market values, changes in securities markets or by inflation or other factors could continue to impact our customers and their ability to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans, and the stability of our deposits. Our operating results have been negatively impacted by the continued historically high level of nonperforming loans in our commercial loan portfolio. Continued weakness in the Chicago area economy has had and may continue to have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including higher provisions for loan losses and net loan charge-offs, lower net interest income caused by an increase in nonaccrual loans, and higher legal and collection costs. In addition, we may be required to continue to devote substantial additional attention and resources to nonperforming asset management rather than focusing on business growth activities. Continued adverse conditions in the local economy could also reduce demand for new loans and impair our ability to attract and retain deposits. Our business is subject to domestic and international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes (including those as a result of the new Dodd-Frank Act), competition, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, and consolidation within our customer base and within our industry. Because of uncertainty in the market, certain lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. Any resulting lack of available credit or any lack of confidence in the banking and financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial services providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience intense competition from other financial institutions in our market. We compete with these institutions in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented people. We have observed that the competition in our market for making commercial loans has resulted in more competitive pricing and credit structure, as well as intense competition for qualified commercial lending officers. We also may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, limited branch network, narrower product offerings and lack of geographic diversification. Although our competitive strategy is to provide a distinctly superior customer and employee experience, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market area. Our business strategy is dependent on our continued ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in senior management and customer relationship positions. We believe our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel in key senior management and other positions. Our competitive strategy is to provide each of our commercial customers with a highly qualified relationship manager that will serve as the customer’s key point of contact with us. Achieving the status of a “trusted advisor” for our customers also requires that we minimize relationship manager turnover and provide stability to the customer relationship. Competition for experienced personnel is intense, and we may not be able to successfully retain and attract such personnel. Our recent operating losses have reduced our cash-based incentive awards. In addition, our participation in the TARP CPP program places limits on executive compensation. While we have not recently experienced significant employee turnover, the inability to retain and attract key personnel could negatively impact our operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to certain additional risks. From time to time, we will consider and may enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities can involve a number of uncertainties, risks and expenses, including the investment of significant time and resources, and we can give no assurance that our projected price and profitability targets will be attainable or that our efforts will be successful. These initiatives could also require us to enter geographical markets that are new to us. In addition, new lines of business and new products and services could significantly impact the effectiveness of our system of internal controls, and present requirements for legal compliance with which we were previously unfamiliar. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth. Our future success depends on our achieving growth in commercial banking relationships that result in increased commercial loans outstanding at yields that are profitable to us. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers who currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our strategy is to provide a local, high-touch relationship servicing experience that we believe is attractive to customers in our marketplace. In addition, we actively pursue high quality relationship managers to extend our reach in the market place. Although we believe that we have the necessary resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, our growth strategy exposes us to certain risks and expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our strategy for future growth also may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Maintaining credit quality while growing our loan portfolio is critical to achieving and sustaining profitable growth. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If we fail to do so, our business would be materially harmed. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we may also seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future, and we may engage in banking center expansion. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our regulators will permit us to implement an acquisition strategy. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve a level of profitability that will justify the investment that we made in any such acquisition. We are subject to security risks relating to our internet banking activities that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators, ratings agencies and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new or maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees, and business relationships. 