ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following section sets forth material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. The following factors, as well as the factors discussed in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors That May Influence Future Results of Operations” and other information contained in this report, should be considered in evaluating us and our business. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Global market and economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and those of our tenants. In the U.S., market and economic conditions continue to be challenging with tight credit conditions and modest growth. While recent economic data reflects a stabilization of the economy and credit markets, the cost and availability of credit may continue to be adversely affected. Concern about continued stability of the economy and credit markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically, has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Volatility in the U.S. and international capital markets and continued recessionary conditions in global economies, and in the California economy in particular, may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability and the ability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Our operations and those of our tenants may be adversely affected by the impact of California economic conditions and California’s budget deficit. As of December 31, 2010, all but one of our properties and all of our undeveloped land are located in California. The continuing economic crisis has particularly affected the economy of California. The State of California began its fiscal year on July 1, 2010 with a significant reported deficit, which continues to impact and aggravate current recessionary conditions within the State. Given the budgetary situation in California, there is also the possibility that the California State Legislature could enact new tax legislation, increasing tax rates in California. New legislation also could cut funding for government programs that are relied upon by our tenants. The economic and legislative environment within the State could have an adverse impact on businesses operating in California, including us and our tenants. As a result of these factors, continued economic weakness in California could impact our ability to generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses or other obligations, which would adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of the Company’s common stock and of the Operating Partnership’s publicly-traded notes, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our investments in real estate assets and with trends in the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of the Company’s common stock, are subject to the risk that our properties may not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses or other obligations. A deficiency of this nature would adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Events and conditions applicable to owners and operators of real estate that are beyond our control and could impact our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets may include: • local oversupply or reduction in demand for office, industrial, or other commercial space, which may result in decreasing rental rates and greater concessions to tenants; • inability to collect rent from tenants; 11 • vacancies or inability to rent space on favorable terms or at all; • inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, and real estate taxes; • costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; • the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; • changing submarket demographics; and • property damage resulting from seismic activity or other natural disasters. We depend upon significant tenants and the loss of a significant tenant could adversely affect our financial condition, revenues and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, our fifteen largest tenants represented approximately 39.5% of total annualized base rental revenues. See further discussion on the composition of our tenants by industry and our largest tenants under “Item 1: Business—Significant Tenants” and “Item 2: Properties—Significant Tenants.” Although we have been able to mitigate the impact of past significant tenant defaults on our financial condition, revenues, and results of operations, our financial condition, results of operations, ability to borrow funds, and cash flows would be adversely affected if any of our significant tenants fails to renew its lease(s), renew its lease(s) on terms less favorable to us, or becomes bankrupt or insolvent or otherwise unable to satisfy its lease obligations. Downturn in tenants’ businesses may reduce our cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 99.0% of our revenues from continuing operations from rental income and tenant reimbursements. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which may weaken its financial condition and result in its failure to make timely rental payments or result in defaults under our leases. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might permit the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid and future rent could be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Therefore, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Any losses resulting from the bankruptcy of any of our existing tenants could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease available space. As of December 31, 2010, we had office and industrial space available for lease representing approximately 10.9% of the total square footage of our properties. In addition, leases representing approximately 5.8% and 10.3% of the leased rentable square footage of our properties are scheduled to expire in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Above market rental rates on some of our properties may force us to renew or re-lease expiring leases at rates below current lease rates. As of December 31, 2010, we believe that the weighted average cash rental rates for our overall portfolio, including recently acquired properties, are approximately 10% above the current average quoted market rental rates, and weighted average cash rental rates for leases scheduled to expire during 2011 are approximately 15% above the current average quoted market rental rates, although individual properties within any particular submarket presently may be leased at, above, or below the current market rental rates within that submarket. We cannot give any assurance that leases will be renewed or that available space will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above the current rental rates. If the average rental rates for our properties decrease or existing tenants do not renew their leases, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of the Company’s common stock and of the Operating Partnership’s publicly-traded notes, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. 12 We are subject to governmental regulations that may affect the development, redevelopment, and use of our properties. We are subject to governmental regulations that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Our properties are subject to regulation under federal laws, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”) and updates thereof under which all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons, and state and local laws addressing earthquake, fire, and life safety requirements. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with requirements under applicable governmental regulations, none of our properties have been audited or investigated for compliance by any regulatory agency. If we were not in compliance with material provisions of the ADA or other regulations affecting our properties, we might be required to take remedial action, which could include making modifications or renovations to properties. Federal, state, or local governments may also enact future laws and regulations that could require us to make significant modifications or renovations to our properties. If we were to incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. Our properties are subject to land use rules and regulations that govern our development, redevelopment, and use of our properties. Restrictions on our ability to develop, redevelop, or use our properties resulting from changes in the existing land use rules and regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quoted trading price of our securities, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Increasing utility costs in California may have an adverse effect on our operating results and occupancy levels. The State of California continues to address issues related to the supply of electricity, water, and natural gas. In recent years, shortages of electricity have resulted in increased costs for consumers and certain interruptions in service. Increased consumer costs and consumer perception that the State is not able to effectively manage its utility needs may reduce demand for leased space in California office and industrial properties. Our debt level reduces cash available for distribution and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to pay in cash the distributions necessary to maintain the Company’s REIT qualification. See “—Risks Related to the Company’s Status as a REIT-Loss of the Company’s REIT status would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of the Company’s common stock.” Our level of debt and the limitations imposed by our debt agreements may have substantial consequences to us, including the following: • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity, or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • cash flows may be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • we may default on our obligations, and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure the loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; and • our default under one mortgage loan could result in a default on other indebtedness with cross default provisions. If one or more of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. In addition, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could require our security holders to pay income tax. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, $75.0 million of which is contractually due prior to December 31, 2011. Our total debt and preferred equity at December 31, 2010 represented 45.8% of our total market capitalization (which we define as the aggregate of our long-term debt, liquidation value of our preferred equity, and the market value of the Company’s common stock and common units). 13 For the calculation of our market capitalization and additional information on debt maturities see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Company.” Our credit facility includes financial covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We rely exclusively on cash distributions we receive from the Operating Partnership for our working capital, including the cash necessary to pay dividends and distributions on shares of our common stock and preferred stock. The Operating Partnership has a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which restricts the Operating Partnership from making, in any year, distributions to us or other holders of its partnership interests in an aggregate amount in excess of the greater of: • 95% of the Operating Partnership’s consolidated funds from operations (as defined in the Credit Facility) for such year; and • an amount which results in distributions to us (excluding any preferred partnership distributions to the extent the same have been deducted from consolidated funds from operation for such year) in an amount sufficient to permit us to (a) pay dividends to our stockholders which we reasonably believe are necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal and state income tax purposes and (b) avoid the payment of federal or state income or exercise tax. In addition, the Credit Facility provides that, if the Operating Partnership fails to pay when due any principal of or interest on any borrowings under the Credit Facility, then the Operating Partnership may make only those partnership distributions to us and other holders of its partnership interests necessary to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders which we reasonably believe are necessary to maintain our status as a REIT for federal and state income tax purposes. Any limitation on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, whether as a result of these provisions in the Credit Facility or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and preferred stock. We face significant competition, which may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with several developers, owners, and operators of office, industrial, and other commercial real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located but which have lower occupancy rates than our properties. Therefore, our competitors have an incentive to decrease rental rates until their available space is leased. As previously mentioned, at December 31, 2010 we believe that the weighted average cash rental rates for our overall portfolio are 10% above the current average quoted market rental rates. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below the rates currently charged by us for comparable space, we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those currently charged in order to retain tenants when our tenant leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders may be adversely affected. Potential casualty losses, such as earthquake losses, may not be covered by insurance and payment of such losses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, rental loss, and terrorism insurance covering all of our properties. Management believes the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for generally uninsurable losses such as loss from riots or acts of God. Some of our policies, like those covering losses resulting from floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments. We are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and any costs to comply with, or liabilities arising under, such laws and regulations could be material. As an owner, operator, manager, and developer of real properties, we are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Certain of these laws and regulations impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for investigation and clean-up costs on current and former owners and operators of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. At some of the properties, there are asbestos-containing materials, or tenants routinely handle hazardous substances as part of their operations. In addition, historical operations, including the presence of underground storage tanks, have caused soil or groundwater contamination at or near 14 some of the properties. Although we believe that the prior owners of the affected properties conducted remediation of known soil contamination at these properties, we cannot assure you that all such contamination has been remediated. The discovery of previously unknown contamination or the compliance with existing or new environmental or health and safety laws and regulations could require us to incur costs or liabilities that could be material. Earthquake damage to our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. All but one of our properties are located in California. We carry earthquake insurance on our properties in an amount and with deductibles that management believes are commercially reasonable. However, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes. In addition, our earthquake insurance policies include substantial self-insurance portions, and we may discontinue earthquake insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for earthquake insurance exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the properties were irreparable. We may be unable to complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. We continually evaluate the market of available properties and may continue to acquire office and industrial properties and undeveloped land when strategic opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them is subject to the following risks: • we may potentially be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • the possibility that, even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of office and industrial properties, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions since they remain subject to customary conditions to closing including the completion of due diligence investigations to management’s satisfaction; • we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; • we may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; • we may lease acquired properties at below expected rental rates; • we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities for which we may have limited or no recourse; and • we may be unable to complete an acquisition after making a nonrefundable deposit and incurring certain other acquisition related costs. If we cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms or operate acquired properties to meet financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully complete and operate acquired, developed, and redeveloped properties. There are significant risks associated with property acquisition, development, and redevelopment including the possibility that: • we may be unable to lease acquired, developed, or redeveloped properties at expected rental rates or within budgeted timeframes; • we may not complete development or redevelopment properties on schedule or within budgeted amounts; 15 • we may expend funds on and devote management’s time to acquisition, development, or redevelopment properties that we may not complete; • we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, and other required entitlements, and building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • we may encounter delays, refusals, unforeseen cost increases, and other impairments resulting from third-party litigation; and • we may fail to obtain the financial results expected from properties we acquire, develop, or redevelop. If one or more of these events were to occur in connection with our acquired properties, undeveloped land, or development or redevelopment properties under construction, we could be required to recognize an impairment loss. These events could also have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. While we historically have acquired, developed, and redeveloped office properties in California markets, we acquired one property in Washington during the year ended December 31, 2010 and may in the future acquire, develop, or redevelop properties for other uses and expand our business to other geographic regions where we expect the development or acquisition of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on our investment. Presently, we do not possess the same level of familiarity with development of property types other than office and industrial, or with certain outside markets, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire or develop properties or to achieve expected performance. We could default on leases for land on which some of our properties are located. As of December 31, 2010, we owned one office complex, Kilroy Airport Center in Long Beach, California, located on various land parcels, which we lease individually on a long-term basis. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 949,100 aggregate rentable square feet, or 6.8% of our total stabilized portfolio, of rental space located on these leased parcels. If we default under the terms of any particular lease, we may lose the ownership rights to the property subject to the lease. Upon expiration of a lease, we may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of the ownership rights to these properties or an increase of rental expense could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Real estate assets are illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties when we desire. Our investments in our properties are relatively illiquid, limiting our ability to sell our properties quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Code generally imposes a 100% prohibited transaction tax on the Company on profits derived from sales of properties held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, which effectively limits our ability to sell properties other than on a selected basis. These restrictions on our ability to sell our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. We may invest in securities related to real estate, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. We may purchase securities issued by entities which own real estate and may, in the future, also invest in mortgages. In general, investments in mortgages are subject to several risks, including: • borrowers may fail to make debt service payments or pay the principal when due; • the value of the mortgaged property may be less than the principal amount of the mortgage note securing the property; and • interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than our cost for the funds used to acquire these mortgages. 16 Owning these securities may not entitle us to control the ownership, operation, and management of the underlying real estate. In addition, we may have no control over the distributions with respect to these securities, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Future terrorist activity or engagement in war by the U.S. may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other acts of terrorism or war, may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. In addition, the public perception that certain locations are at greater risk for attack, such as major airports, ports, and rail facilities, may decrease the demand for and the value of our properties near these sites. A decrease in demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at these sites at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, or loss, and the availability of insurance for these acts may be less, and cost more, which could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their existing leases. Terrorist acts and engagement in war by the U.S. also may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade and may cause further erosion of business and consumer confidence and spending and may result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events may cause a decline in the demand for our office and industrial leased space, delay the time in which our new or renovated properties reach stabilized occupancy, increase our operating expenses, such as those attributable to increased physical security for our properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. Risks Related to our Organizational Structure Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control and the inability to obtain capital on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is required under the Code to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income (subject to certain adjustments and excluding net capital gain) and the Operating Partnership is required to make distributions to the Company to allow the Company to satisfy these REIT distribution requirements. For distributions with respect to our 2008 through 2011 taxable years, IRS guidance allows the Company to satisfy up to 90% of this requirement through the distribution of shares of its common stock, if certain conditions are met. Because of these distribution requirements, the Operating Partnership is required to make distributions to the Company, and we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, management relies on third-party sources of capital to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on general market conditions and the availability of credit, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and expected future earnings, our cash flows and cash distributions, and the quoted market price of our securities. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the quoted trading price of our securities, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders may be adversely affected. Our common limited partners have limited approval rights, which may prevent us from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all our security holders. The Company may not withdraw as the Operating Partnership’s general partner or transfer its general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership without the approval of the holders of at least 60% of the units representing common limited partnership interests, including the common units held by the Company in its capacity as the Operating Partnership’s general partner. In addition, the Company may not engage in a merger, consolidation, or other combination or the sale of substantially all of its assets or such similar transaction, without the approval of the holders of 60% of the common units, including the common units held by the Company in its capacity as the Operating Partnership’s general partner. The right of our common limited partners to vote on these transactions could limit our ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all our security holders. In certain circumstances, our limited partners must approve our dissolution and the disposition of properties contributed by the limited partners. For as long as limited partners own at least 5% of all of our partnership 17 interests, we must obtain the approval of limited partners holding a majority of the units representing common limited partnership interests before we may dissolve. As of December 31, 2010, limited partners owned approximately 3.2% of our partnership interests, of which 2.7% was owned by John B. Kilroy, Sr. and John B. Kilroy, Jr. In addition, we agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the tax consequences to common limited partners resulting from the repayment, refinancing, replacement, or restructuring of debt, or any sale, exchange, or other disposition of any of our other assets. The exercise of one or more of these approval rights by the limited partners could delay or prevent us from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all our security holders. The Chairman of our board of directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer each have substantial influence over our affairs. John B. Kilroy, Sr. is the Chairman of our board of directors and the father of John B. Kilroy, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. Each is a member of our board of directors, and together, as of December 31, 2010, they beneficially owned approximately 3.3% of the total outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. The percentage of outstanding shares of common stock beneficially owned includes 239,477 shares of common stock, 176,616 restricted stock units that were vested and held by John B. Kilroy, Jr. at December 31, 2010, and assumes the exchange into shares of the Company’s common stock of the 1,335,135 common units held by Messrs. Kilroy (which are redeemable in exchange for, at the option of the Company, an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock). The beneficial ownership percentage excludes 33,201 nonvested restricted stock units held by John B. Kilroy, Jr. at December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the Company’s charter, no other stockholder may own, actually or constructively, more than 7.0% of the outstanding Company common stock without obtaining a waiver from the board of directors. The board of directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B. Kilroy, Jr., members of their families, and some of their affiliated entities. These named individuals and entities may own either actually or constructively, in the aggregate, up to 19.6% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, excluding Operating Partnership units that are exchangeable into shares of Company common stock. Consequently, Messrs. Kilroy have substantial influence on the Company, and because the Company is the manager of the Operating Partnership, on the Operating Partnership, and could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of our stockholders, noteholders or unitholders. Also, they may, in the future, have a substantial influence on the outcome of any matters submitted to our stockholders or unitholders for approval. There are restrictions on the ownership of the capital stock of the Company, which limit the opportunities for a change of control at a premium to existing security holders. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, the Company’s charter and bylaws, and the Operating Partnership’s partnership agreement may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control over us, or the removal of existing management. Any of these actions might prevent our security holders from receiving a premium for their common shares or common units over the then-prevailing market price of the shares of the Company’s common stock. The Code contains ownership limits on the Company’s capital stock that apply as a result of the Company’s decision to be taxed as a REIT, including: • no more than 50% in value of the Company’s capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, including some entities, during the last half of a taxable year; • the Company’s common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year, or a proportionate part of a short taxable year; and • if the Operating Partnership, the Company or any entity which owns 10% or more of the Company’s capital stock, actually or constructively own 10% or more of one of the Operating Partnership’s tenants, a tenant of the Company or any partnership in which the Operating Partnership or the Company is a partner, then any rents received from that tenant will not be qualifying income for purposes of the Code’s REIT gross income tests, regardless of whether the rent is received directly or through a partnership. The Company’s charter also establishes ownership limits to protect the Company’s REIT status. No single stockholder may own, either actually or constructively, absent a waiver from the board of directors, more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s common stock outstanding. Similarly, absent a waiver from the board of directors, no single holder of the Company’s 7.45% Series A 18 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), if issued, may actually or constructively own any class or series of the Company’s preferred stock, so that their total capital stock ownership would exceed 7.0% by value of the Company’s total outstanding shares of capital stock; no single holder of the Company’s 7.8% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock (the “Series E Preferred Stock”) may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s Series E Preferred Stock; and no single holder of the Company’s 7.5% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock (the “Series F Preferred Stock”) may actually or constructively own more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock. The board of directors may waive the ownership limits if it is satisfied that the excess ownership would not jeopardize the Company’s REIT status and if it believes that the waiver would be in our best interest. The board of directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B. Kilroy, Jr., members of their families, and some of their affiliated entities. These named individuals and entities may own either actually or constructively, in the aggregate, up to 19.6% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, excluding units that are exchangeable into shares of common stock. The board of directors has also waived the ownership limits with respect to the initial purchasers of each of our 3.25% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2012 (the “3.25% Exchangeable Notes”) and the 4.25% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2014 (the “4.25% Exchangeable Notes” and, together with the 3.25% Exchangeable Notes, the “Exchangeable Notes”) and certain of their affiliated entities to beneficially own up to 9.8%, in the aggregate, of the Company’s common stock in connection with hedging the capped call transactions. If anyone acquires shares in excess of any ownership limits, the transfer to the transferee will be void with respect to the excess shares, the excess shares will be automatically transferred from the transferee or owner to a trust for the benefit of a qualified charitable organization, the purported transferee or owner will have no right to vote those excess shares, and the purported transferee or owner will have no right to receive dividends or other distributions from those excess shares. The Company’s charter contains provisions that may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control transaction. The following provisions of the Company’s charter may delay or prevent a change of control over us, even if a change of control might be beneficial to our security holders, deter tender offers that may be beneficial to our security holders, or limit security holders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares and/or units if an investor attempted to gain shares beyond the Company’s ownership limits or otherwise to effect a change of control: • The Company’s charter authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of the Company’s preferred stock, including convertible preferred stock, without stockholder approval. The board of directors may establish the preferences, rights, and other terms, including the right to vote and the right to convert into common stock any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could delay or prevent a tender offer or a change of control even if a tender offer or a change of control was in our security holder’s interest. As of December 31, 2010, 5,060,000 shares of the Company’s preferred stock were issued and outstanding, consisting of 1,610,000 shares of the Company’s Series E Preferred Stock and 3,450,000 shares of the Company’s Series F Preferred Stock, and an additional 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock were designated as Series A Preferred Stock, which was reserved for possible issuance in exchange for the Operating Partnership’s outstanding Series A Preferred Units (the “Series A Preferred Units”); and • The Company’s charter states that any director, or the entire board of directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two thirds of the votes of the Company’s capital stock entitled to be cast in the election of directors. The board of directors may change investment and financing policies without unitholder or stockholder approval, causing us to become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. We are not limited in our ability to incur debt. Our financing policies and objectives are determined by the board of directors. Our goal is to limit our dependence on leverage and maintain a conservative ratio of debt to total 19 market capitalization. However, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, which represented 40.2% of our total market capitalization. Our total debt and the liquidation value of our preferred equity as a percentage of total market capitalization was approximately 45.8% as of December 31, 2010. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Company” for a calculation of our market capitalization. These ratios may be increased or decreased without the consent of our unitholders or stockholders. Increases in the amount of debt outstanding would result in an increase in our debt service, which could adversely affect cash flow and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations and limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. We may issue additional common units and shares of capital stock without unitholder or stockholder approval, as applicable, which may dilute unitholder or stockholder investment. The Company may issue shares of our common stock, preferred stock, or other equity or debt securities without stockholder approval, including the issuance of shares to satisfy REIT dividend distribution requirements. Similarly, the Operating Partnership may offer our common or preferred units for contributions of cash or property without approval by our unitholders. Further, under certain circumstances, the Company may issue shares of our common stock in exchange for the Operating Partnership’s outstanding Exchangeable Notes. Existing security holders have no preemptive rights to acquire any of these securities, and any issuance of equity securities under these circumstances may dilute a unitholder’s or stockholder’s investment. Sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s securities, or the perception that this could occur, could result in decreasing the quoted market price per share for the Company’s common stock and of the Operating Partnership’s publicly-traded notes. Management cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of the Company’s common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will result in decreasing the market price per share of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 52,349,670 shares of the Company’s common stock and 5,060,000 shares of the Company’s preferred stock, consisting of 1,610,000 shares of Series E Preferred Stock and 3,450,000 shares of Series F Preferred Stock, were issued and outstanding, and an additional 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock were designated as Series A Preferred Stock, which was reserved for possible issuance in exchange for the Operating Partnership’s outstanding Series A Preferred Units. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had reserved for future issuance the following shares of common stock: 1,723,131 shares issuable upon the exchange, at the Company’s option, of the Operating Partnership’s common units; 4,375,533 shares remained available for grant under our 2006 Incentive Award Plan (see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements); 713,822 shares issuable upon settlement of restricted stock units (“RSUs”); 20,000 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options; and 975,101 shares issuable under our the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan, as well as 1,681,813 and 4,800,796 shares potentially issuable under certain circumstances, in exchange for the 3.25% Exchangeable Notes and 4.25% Exchangeable Notes, respectively. The Company has a currently effective registration statement registering 1,723,131 shares of our common stock for possible issuance to the holders of the Operating Partnership’s common units. That registration statement also registers 306,808 shares of common stock held by certain stockholders for possible resale. The Company also has a currently effective registration statements registering the 1,681,813 shares of our common stock that may potentially be issued in exchange for the Operating Partnership’s presently outstanding 3.25% Exchangeable Notes, and 4,800,796 shares of our common stock that may potentially be issued in exchange for the Operating Partnership’s presently outstanding 4.25% Exchangeable Notes. Consequently, if and when the shares are issued, they may be freely traded in the public markets. Risks Related to the Company’s Status as a REIT Loss of the Company’s REIT status would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company currently operates in a manner that is intended to allow the Company to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. If the Company were to lose its REIT status, the 20 Company would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our unitholders and stockholders for each of the years involved because: • the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing the Company’s taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • the Company could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless entitled to relief under statutory provisions, the Company could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which the Company was disqualified. In addition, if the Company failed to qualify as a REIT, the Company will not be required to make distributions to our stockholders, and all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, the Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect the Company’s ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of the Company’s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. Also, the Company must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s taxable income (subject to certain adjustments and excluding net capital gain). For distributions with respect to our 2008 through 2011 taxable years, IRS guidance allows the Company to satisfy up to 90% of this requirement through the distribution of shares of its common stock, if certain conditions are met. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may adversely affect the Company’s security holders, or the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although management believes that we are organized and that we operate in a manner to permit the Company to continue to qualify as a REIT, we can provide no assurance to that effect. To maintain the Company’s REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, the Company generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of the Company’s taxable income each year (subject to certain adjustments and excluding net capital gain) and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our net capital gains, and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. For distributions with respect to our 2008 through 2011 taxable years, IRS guidance allows the Company to satisfy up to 90% of this requirement through the distribution of shares of its common stock, if certain conditions are met. To maintain the Company’s REIT status and avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes, the Operating Partnership may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis and loan the proceeds to the Company so we can meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 