Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules EXPLANATORY NOTE This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of known and unknown factors, including the risk factors in item 1A below and other factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report. We have identified many of these forward-looking statements for your convenient reference, although we do not claim to have identified all of them. "Intraware" and "SubscribeNet" are registered trademarks or service marks of Intraware. This annual report also refers to other trademarks of Intraware and trademarks of other companies. Intraware, Inc., was incorporated in August 1996 under the laws of the State of Delaware. In this annual report, Intraware, Inc. is sometimes referred to as "the Registrant," "the Company," "Intraware," "we," "our" and "us." The mailing address for our headquarters is 25 Orinda Way, Orinda, California 94563, and our telephone number at that location is (925) 253-4500. Intraware can also be reached through our web site http://www.intraware.com . PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We launched the first outsourced Web-based electronic software delivery and management (ESDM) solution in 1996. Today, we are a leading provider of global ESDM services for enterprise software publishers and resellers. Our ESDM services help software publishers, software resellers and other technology companies streamline manufacturing, distribution and support costs; develop business intelligence about their customers; strengthen customer retention and maintenance renewals; accelerate and document software and license key delivery for revenue recognition purposes; and comply with U.S. export controls. Over 90% of Fortune 500 companies have received access to enterprise software or licenses through our ESDM services. We also offer complementary services, including license management, e-commerce, and on-demand physical fulfillment through our alliances with companies including Digital River and Nexstra. Demand for ESDM Services We believe that demand for electronic software distribution is driven by a number of factors, including: Cost Savings by Software Providers. Through electronic delivery, software providers can significantly reduce manufacturing and distribution costs associated with creating, duplicating and shipping CDs, diskettes and packaging. Entitlement Management and Licensing. ESDM enables software providers and end-users to manage software entitlements and electronically generate and deliver licenses, helping software providers maximize revenues and helping customers quickly and easily ensure license compliance in dynamic environments. Tax Savings by End-Users. A number of states exempt software license purchases from sales tax if the software is delivered electronically, providing a competitive advantage to software providers that are able to effect such delivery. Customer Satisfaction. ESDM enables end-users to receive software and licenses within minutes after purchase or release. ESDM can also provide an online library of an end-user's software entitlements, as well as tools for IT departments to monitor and control licensing and downloads of that software throughout their organizations. Business Intelligence. An ESDM solution can generate reports to help software providers understand end-users' use of and experience with the software providers' products, including reports that help identify key individual end-users, track the download frequency of different releases, and track the speed and quality of downloads. Accelerated Delivery. Accelerated delivery of bug-fixes and patches can shorten resolution times for software errors, viruses and security flaws affecting end-users. Real-time online fulfillment of software sales may also accelerate revenue recognition for software providers. Regulatory Compliance. By automatically providing third-party confirmation of software availability, ESDM can help software finance departments document compliance with delivery requirements under software revenue recognition rules. An ESDM service can also screen software downloads worldwide for compliance with U.S. export controls. SubscribeNet ESDM Service Our central offering is the SubscribeNet ESDM service. SubscribeNet is an integrated web-based solution that enables software providers and their channel partners to distribute software releases online, manage licensing and entitlement across their global customer base, track and report deliveries and download activity, and manage export compliance. Software providers use the SubscribeNet service to help reduce costs associated with manufacturing, packaging and distributing CDs, automate and simplify licensing processes, provide sales tax advantages to their end-users in certain states, increase customer retention and maintenance renewal rates, generate data on their end-users' use of their software, accelerate delivery of software to their end-users, and enhance export and revenue recognition compliance. Revenues associated with our SubscribeNet service comprised approximately 87%, 77%, and 66% of our revenues in our 2006, 2005 and 2004 fiscal years, respectively. Strategic Advantages Among competitive ESDM offerings, or compared to solutions developed in-house by software providers, the SubscribeNet service offers strategic advantages, including: Integrated Software and License Delivery and Management. The SubscribeNet service offers a single integrated solution for delivery and management of full catalogs of enterprise software and electronic licenses. Software providers can electronically fulfill orders, manage update processes, and generate, assign and deliver licenses through a single Web interface. Entitlement Management. Software providers can manage relationships among the products in their catalogs, the various releases of those products, and the files that comprise each such release. Software providers can assign entitlements for any combination of those items to their customers and individual end-users. Entitlements can be assigned in the SubscribeNet service through our extended license generation solution, or directly from the software provider's order processing, customer relationship management (CRM), e-commerce or licensing system, and can be time-limited to match the duration of customer maintenance contracts. Technology Infrastructure. The technology infrastructure underlying the SubscribeNet service is engineered to provide scalability, redundancy, platform independence and 24x7 service. Integration with Software Provider's Systems. The SubscribeNet service integrates with major enterprise resource planning (ERP), processing, and CRM systems used by software providers. Reporting. The SubscribeNet service provides extensive reporting capabilities to support software providers' internal transaction reporting requirements and to help them analyze end-user usage trends. Regulatory Compliance. The SubscribeNet service provides automated screening and reporting to support compliance with U.S. export regulations, and provides third-party evidence of software availability to support compliance with software revenue recognition rules. Rapid Implementation. Once the software provider's particular requirements are defined and its resources are allocated, our implementation methodology enables standard SubscribeNet implementations to be completed in as few as 21 business days. Channel Management. Our Channel Manager module enables software providers to extend some or all of the benefits of the SubscribeNet service to their resellers and their resellers' end-users, while keeping confidential data segregated among the software provider and its various resellers. Focus and Expertise. For the past 9 years, Intraware has focused on creating ESDM solutions for the enterprise software marketplace. This focus has enabled us to develop domain expertise and technology in the ESDM field that we believe differentiates us from other ESDM providers. Customers As of April 18, 2006, 53 software providers subscribed to the SubscribeNet service. These include companies whose main business is providing software, companies that distribute software as a secondary business, and companies that resell software. Eight of those customers each accounted for 5% or more of our Online services and technology and Related party online services and technology revenue during our 2006 fiscal year. One of our customers, Software Spectrum, Inc., accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue during our 2006 fiscal year (see "Risk Factors" in item 1A, and Note 2 of our "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 below). Sales Direct Sales of SubscribeNet ESDM Service We typically sell the SubscribeNet service on a subscription basis, charging a service fee for a fixed period of time. We sell our SubscribeNet service primarily through a direct sales force dedicated to our SubscribeNet business. We have established direct sales offices for our SubscribeNet sales at our headquarters in Orinda, California, and in Boston, Massachusetts. Each SubscribeNet sales representative has a territory that he or she covers through telecommunications and in-person sales calls. The sales cycle for these services is typically lengthy because our sales efforts must target the prospective customer's senior personnel across multiple departments. Sales of SubscribeNet ESDM Service through Strategic Alliances We maintain a number of strategic alliances intended to complement our direct sales efforts and broaden sales of our SubscribeNet service. Agreement with Hewlett-Packard. Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") is a reseller of our SubscribeNet service through its Software Publisher Services division. HP's Software Publisher Services division has provided a global business process outsourcing solution for multiple aspects of software publishing and distribution for more than 30 years. Under our agreement, HP has the right to market and resell the SubscribeNet solution with its suite of outsourced services. Customers who purchase the SubscribeNet solution through HP contract directly with HP. HP pays us for services as they are provided to customers. The agreement automatically renews for a one-year term in September, subject to either party's right to cancel a renewal. We describe the relationship between HP and Intraware further in Note 2 of our "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 below. Agreement with Zomax. Zomax Incorporated, a leading international outsource provider of supply chain management services, is a reseller of the SubscribeNet service. Customers who purchase the SubscribeNet solution through Zomax contract directly with Zomax. Zomax pays us for services as they are provided to customers. The agreement automatically renews for a one-year term each April, subject to either party's right to cancel upon 60 days' notice prior to renewal. We describe the relationship between Zomax and Intraware further in Note 2 of our "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 below. Referral Arrangements for SubscribeNet Sales. We also maintain various other referral arrangements under which we pay fees to companies that refer new SubscribeNet customers to us. Sales Outside the United States Approximately $1.4 million of our total revenue for the year ended February 28, 2006, $1.2 million of our total revenue for the year ended February 28, 2005, and $0.7 million of our total revenue for the year ended February 29, 2004, was from sales to companies based outside the United States of America. All of this revenue was categorized as Online services and technology revenue. These foreign sales accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenue and 14% of our Online services and technology revenue for the year ended February 28, 2006, 11% of our total revenue and 15% our Online services and technology revenue for the year ended February 28, 2005, and 6% of our total revenue and 10% Online services and technology revenue for the year ended February 29, 2004. Total Annual Contract Value We track a metric for our SubscribeNet service business that we call "total annual contract value." We use this metric to approximate what the total ongoing annual SubscribeNet service fees would be under our existing contracts with our customers, assuming all those contracts renewed on their current terms and, in the case of variable-fee contracts, the customers maintained the same level of fee-generating activity as they had in the prior twelve months. (We cannot guarantee that those assumptions will be true, as we describe further below.) We define "total annual contract value" as, on any given date, the aggregate annual service fees paid or expected to be paid by our customers for services we have contracted to provide during the then-current annual periods of the customers' respective contracts with us. To be included in total annual contract value, service fees must be either contractually required to be paid, or expected to be paid based on a minimum 12-month history of prior charges and payments that were not required by contractual minimums. Total annual contract value includes amounts that have been recognized as revenue as well as amounts that may be recognized as revenue in the future. As of April 18, 2006, the total annual contract value of our SubscribeNet service customer base was $9.8 million. The total annual contract value of our SubscribeNet service customer base as of March 31, 2005, was $7.9 million. We caution that total annual contract value is not necessarily indicative of current revenues or of future revenues in any given fiscal period, and should not be relied upon to assess our financial condition. In addition to the "Risk Factors" in item 1A, factors that could cause differences between total annual contract value and revenues include unexpected contract terminations, reductions in customer activity, the application of our revenue recognition policies described under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Revenue Recognition" in Item 7 ("Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation") and under "Revenue Recognition" in Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8 below, and the occurrence of any contingencies that make deferral of revenue recognition appropriate under any given contract. We also caution that total annual contract value is different from backlog. Backlog typically excludes amounts already recognized as revenue, while total annual contract value may include amounts already recognized as revenue for portions of the current annual terms of our existing SubscribeNet contracts. In addition, total annual contract value includes fees that are paid, payable or expected for the current annual terms of our existing SubscribeNet contracts, even if we expect to provide the related services after our current fiscal year. Marketing Our central marketing goals are to attract and retain customers for our services. We target our marketing efforts to senior personnel across multiple departments in software companies and other mid-sized and large corporations. We use an integrated approach of targeted advertising; direct mail, email and online promotions; interactive web-based seminars, or "webinars;" event sponsorships; trade shows; brand-awareness campaigns; and regular meetings with existing customers to stimulate demand for our services, generate sales leads and maintain customer relationships. We employ a variety of tools to achieve our marketing goals. Our print and online advertising campaigns are designed to target senior personnel across multiple departments in software companies, and educate them on our products and services. Our direct mail, email and online promotions are designed to highlight specific benefits of our services and offer limited-time incentives to enter into purchase or evaluation agreements. In our webinars, our senior executives and other panelists who may include independent IT analysts, senior executives of our customers and partners, and other industry experts, educate prospective customers on ESDM and other topics relevant to our business. We also use trade shows, event sponsorships, and regional marketing to target key audiences, expand our customer base and heighten awareness of the "Intraware" brand. We also hold user conferences and periodic meetings with our customers to educate them on our service offerings, gather feedback from them about our services, and learn about their evolving requirements. Competition The ESDM market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our primary competition comes from two sources: 1) Our potential customers, including software companies and other companies that distribute software or digital goods, who choose to develop an in-house alternative to the SubscribeNet service; and 2) other providers of outsourced electronic software delivery services. A number of these competitors historically have provided related services, such as e-commerce services, replication and distribution of physical media such as CDs, or product lifecycle management solutions, but have begun providing electronic software delivery services. We expect this trend to continue as the demand for digital software delivery increases. The principal competitive factors in our industry include: the performance, features and functionality of an ESDM solution; the comprehensiveness of the services offered by the ESDM provider, such as integration with licensing and physical fulfillment solutions; the cost of a provider's ESDM solution versus the cost of competing ESDM solutions or the cost to a potential customer of building, deploying and maintaining an alternative service in-house; the ESDM provider's experience in and focus on providing ESDM services; the ESDM provider's track record of successful project implementations; positive references by the ESDM provider's existing customers; and the openness of an ESDM solution's architecture and the ease with which it integrates with major customer relations management, order processing and enterprise resource planning systems used by software providers. We believe we compete effectively as to all of these factors, and that our principal advantages include: our relatively senior position as one of the first ESDM service providers; the depth and breadth of features and functionality of an ESDM solution; our high-capacity, high-availability network that enables us to deliver enterprise-class software applications rapidly and securely; the broad suite of services that we offer; the price of our solution, particularly compared with the cost to software providers of developing and maintaining an alternative service in-house; our strong track record of successful project implementations; existing customers who are willing to provide positive references; the flexibility of our solution, which is easily customized and integrated with customers' ERP, CRM and licensing systems; and our suite of administrative and reporting tools that add value for software companies and their end-users. Nevertheless, we face a number of competitive challenges. A key challenge is resistance from software companies that determine, for perceived strategic reasons or based on their cost assessments, that they do not wish to outsource electronic software delivery. Another significant challenge is our focus on ESDM, and our reliance on third-party alliances for key ancillary services. While we believe our focus has enabled us to offer a superior ESDM solution to our competitors, and our integration with strong ancillary solutions addresses a broad set of customer needs, some prospective customers prefer this set of solutions to be supported by a single provider. A third fundamental challenge is our small size. Some large software providers prefer to outsource services to larger suppliers with greater resources. In addition, many of our competitors have longer and more profitable operating histories than ours. They may also have significantly greater financial and other resources, wider name recognition, and a larger installed base of customers (including non-ESDM customers) than we have. They also may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can, which would allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, many of our competitors have existing relationships with divisions of our current or potential customers, and may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage these customers from purchasing additional services or products from us, or persuade these customers to replace our services or products with their own. Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses Our future success depends in part on our technology and proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. Although we seek to take advantage of available intellectual property protections, we believe factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, and reliable product maintenance are most essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to ours. To date, we own three U.S. patents on electronic commerce technologies, expiring in July 2016, September 2017, and February 2018, respectively. In addition, we have eight patent applications pending in the United States on our SubscribeNet ESDM technology. We plan to file additional patent applications on our SubscribeNet ESDM technology during the current fiscal year. We have 10 trademark registrations in the United States. Our key registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks include Intraware, SubscribeNet, The Way Digital Goods Move, and Control Your Technology. We also hold registrations and pending applications for a number of trademarks and service marks outside the United States. We are aware that certain other companies are using the name "Intraware" as a company name or as a trademark or service mark outside the United States. While we do not believe we have infringed any rights and we have received no notice of any claims of infringement from any of those companies, and we own registrations for the "Intraware" trademark in the United States and in other countries, we can make no assurance that these or other companies will not claim superior rights to "Intraware" or other marks used in our business. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy certain portions of our products or services, or reverse-engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We purchase licenses and will continue to purchase licenses for certain products integral to our services and products, including products which are integrated with our software code and used with our products to provide key functionality. We cannot be assured that these third party product licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to successfully integrate such third party products into our solutions. Employees As of April 18, 2006, we had 50 employees, including part-time employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Intraware. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us, or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor, may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. We have a history of losses and negative cash flow, and we have yet to achieve sustained profitability or positive cash flow. We have incurred significant losses since we were formed in 1996, and have yet to achieve sustained profitability or positive cash flow. As of February 28, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $158 million. Also, with the exception of our quarters ended November 30, 2002, and August 31, 2005, we have not achieved positive cash flow from operations since our formation in 1996. We expect to report an overall cash usage from operations for our 2007 fiscal year. Our operating history makes it difficult to evaluate whether or when we will be able to achieve sustained profitability or positive cash flow in the future. The market for our SubscribeNet electronic software and license delivery and management service is immature and volatile. If the market for our service does not develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for hosted digital delivery services is relatively unproven, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies, large and small, to increase their use of hosted digital delivery services. If companies do not increase their use of hosted digital delivery services, our operating results will be hurt. In addition, in this unproven market, we have limited insight into trends that may develop and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. We market our SubscribeNet electronic software and license delivery and management service principally to software companies. However, many software companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in developing their own electronic software and/or license delivery systems, and therefore may be unwilling to migrate to and pay for an outsourced service. In addition, some software companies have adopted automatic update, or "phone home," technology for delivering software updates, whereby an end-user's computer automatically contacts the software company's server to check whether updates are available and, if so, downloads and installs those updates. This method for delivering software updates could be viewed by our potential and existing customers as an alternative to our digital delivery technology, and therefore any increased adoption of this automatic update technology could hurt our business and results of operations. Further, some companies may be reluctant to use either our SubscribeNet delivery services because they are concerned about the security capabilities of these services. Provisions of our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Our charter documents contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions among other things: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15 percent or more of our common stock. The loss of one or more of our key customers could cause our revenue growth to slow or cause our revenues to decline. A substantial portion of the revenues from our SubscribeNet service comes from a relatively small number of customers. Our contracts with most of these customers are subject to renewal or cancellation annually. If any of these customers elected to cancel their agreements with us, our revenue growth would likely slow and our revenues could decline. Mergers and acquisitions in the technology sector could harm us by causing cancellation of customer contracts where our customers are acquired, or by strengthening our competitors. In recent years, there has been an increase in mergers and acquisitions among technology companies. This trend poses risks for us. First, our customers are technology companies, and any acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those customers by the acquiring companies. Second, our competitors also are technology companies. Any acquisitions of other companies by our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by other companies, are likely to result in larger and stronger companies competing against us. Either of these types of events could reduce our revenue through loss of existing customers, or reduce our margins through increased price competition. Competition from other electronic delivery and licensing providers, and potential customers' development of their own electronic delivery and/or licensing systems, could limit our revenue growth and reduce our gross margins. The market for selling electronic delivery and licensing services is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, broader product and service offerings, better name recognition, and a larger installed base of customers than we do. Some of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our potential customers and with third-party information technology or consulting firms that help market our competitors' services. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand and improve their service offerings and new competitors enter the market. In addition, our current and potential customers are primarily information technology companies with strong software development expertise. When considering their alternatives for implementing a system for electronic delivery of software or license keys, these companies sometimes elect to develop such systems in-house. While we believe our competitive position is strong against both external competitors and in-house development, we have at times experienced reduced prices, reduced gross margins and lost sales as a result of such competitive factors. Such competition is likely to intensify, which could limit the growth of our revenues or gross margins. Our sales and marketing services arrangement with Software Spectrum, Inc. terminated on January 3, 2006. As a result, we will no longer recognize alliance and reimbursement revenues after January 3, 2006. Until January 3, 2006, we provided sales and marketing services to Software Spectrum to assist in its resale and marketing of Sun Java Enterprise System and Sun One software licenses and maintenance, under a Sales Alliance Agreement between us and Software Spectrum. Under that agreement, Software Spectrum shared with us a portion of its gross profit from resales of licenses and maintenance for that Sun software, and paid us a SubscribeNet service fee for electronic delivery of that Sun software. This agreement accounted for substantially all of our alliance and reimbursement revenues, a significant portion of our online services and technology revenues, and more than 10% of our total revenues in our 2006 fiscal year. Effective January 3, 2006, we terminated our Sales Alliances Agreement with Software Spectrum We have signed a two-year SubscribeNet service agreement with FusionStorm to provide ESDM services for their SunOne product sales, which we expect will partially offset the decline in our online services and technology revenues. The company does not expect to offer sales and marketing services in the future to other customers as part of the SubscribeNet offering. We will no longer recognize any alliance and reimbursement revenues after January 3, 2006. Although our subscription-based sales model for our SubscribeNet service limits the volatility of our online services and technology revenue, other factors may cause our operating results, and therefore our stock price, to fluctuate. Our SubscribeNet service fees, which comprise most of our online services and technology revenues, are recognized ratably over contract terms of generally one year, thereby limiting the quarter-to-quarter volatility of those revenues. Nevertheless, certain factors may cause our online services and technology revenues to fluctuate. In addition to the other risk factors described in this section, factors that could cause such fluctuation include: Deferral of SubscribeNet revenue recognition due to delays by customers in implementing the SubscribeNet service, due to new sales involving extensive implementations, or due to contract modifications adding significant future deliverables; Lengthening of the sales cycle for our SubscribeNet service due to macroeconomic or other factors; Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements or unaudited interim consolidated financial statements; and Changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants. Consequently, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. The technological and functional requirements we must meet to stay competitive are subject to rapid change. If we are unable to quickly adapt to these changes and meet the demands of our current and potential customers, we will likely lose sales and market share and our revenue growth will be limited. We market primarily to software publishers, who generally demand that a service like ours meet high technological and functional standards. To remain competitive in this market and meet the demands of current and prospective customers, we must continually adapt and upgrade our technology and functionality. We are a small company with limited resources available for enhancing and expanding our services. If we do not respond quickly enough to changing industry standards or the demands of customers and potential customers, we will likely lose sales and market share to competitors and our growth prospects will be limited. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changing standards and demands. If we incur such costs and our sales fail to increase commensurately, we may not be able to achieve sustained profitability and positive operating cash flow. Defects in our SubscribeNet service could diminish demand for the service and subject us to substantial liability. Our service is complex, and may have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using it, which could harm our reputation and our business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite taking precautions to avoid errors, we have from time to time found defects in our service and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. Because our customers use our service for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects or other performance problems with our service could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew their agreements with us, could be eligible for credits under our service level agreements, and could delay or withhold payment to us. We also could lose future sales, or customers may make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or the expense and risk of litigation. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party Web hosting facilities, or in our relationships with third party hardware and software vendors, could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We provide our service through computer hardware that is currently located in a third-party Web hosting facilities in Santa Clara, California operated by SAVVIS Communications, and in Ireland operated by Data Electronics. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. While physical security measures are in place, they are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at the facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, the failure by either facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. We have an agreement with SBC E-Services, an affiliate of SBC Communications, Inc., to provide access to a geographically remote disaster recovery facility that would provide us access to hardware, software and Internet connectivity in the event the SAVVIS facility becomes unavailable. Even with this disaster recovery arrangement, however, our service would be interrupted during the transition. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. In addition, to a significant degree, we rely on various third-party software applications and hardware to deliver our service. If we experience disruptions in those vendor relationships and those software and hardware components become unavailable to us, or unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, our service could be interrupted and/or damaged, causing harm to our customer relationships, our reputation, and our overall business. Viruses may hinder acceptance of Internet-based digital delivery, which could in turn limit our revenue growth. The proliferation of software viruses is a key risk that could inhibit acceptance by information technology professionals of Web-based delivery of digital goods. Any well-publicized transmission of a computer virus by us or another company using digital delivery could deter information technology professionals from using-and deter software providers from outsourcing-digital delivery, thereby adversely affecting our business. Our SubscribeNet service enables our customers to upload their software products directly onto our systems for downloading by their end-users. Our systems automatically scan our customers' software products for known computer viruses on an ongoing basis while they are on our systems. However, it is possible that, in spite of those periodic virus scans, our system could transmit the virus to one or more end-users. Any such virus transmission could result in disputes, litigation and negative publicity that could adversely affect our business and our stock price. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer's data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to one of our customers' data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Additional government regulations may harm demand for our services and increase our costs of doing business. Our business has benefited from the tax laws of states in which purchases of software licenses are not taxable if the software is received only electronically. Some such states are considering whether to change their laws to broaden the taxability of transactions fulfilled over the Internet. Any new imposition of taxes on sales of software licenses, where the software is received electronically, could substantially harm demand for our services and thereby materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also have benefited from implementing our services in Ireland, which offers tax advantages to software companies distributing software from Ireland to other European countries. Any regulatory change in Ireland or elsewhere that diminishes those advantages could harm our business. Other changes in government regulations, in areas such as privacy and export compliance, could also require us to implement changes in our services or operations that increase our cost of doing business and thereby hurt our financial performance. Claims by third parties for intellectual property infringement could force us to stop selling our services, force us to pay royalties, and force us to indemnify our customers. Our business involves a high risk that we will be the target of intellectual property infringement claims. These claims could take a number of forms, including: Claims by other technology companies alleging that current or future components of our digital delivery service or related services infringe their intellectual property rights; Claims by our customers' competitors alleging that our customers' software, which we store and electronically deliver for our customers, infringes those competitors' intellectual property rights (our customers would typically be required to defend and indemnify us against such claims, but the claims could nevertheless disrupt our business); Claims that our use of the name Intraware violates the rights of other entities that are using the same name. We are aware that certain other companies are using the name "Intraware" as a company name or as a trademark or service mark. While we have received no notice of any claims of trademark infringement from any of those companies, we cannot assure you that these companies may not claim superior rights to "Intraware" or to other marks we use; or Claims by our customers that we delivered their software to unauthorized third parties, thereby infringing our customers' intellectual property rights. Industry consolidation is increasing the risk that we will become a target of the types of claims described in the first two bullets above. Consolidation among companies providing digital delivery, licensing, e-commerce and related technologies is resulting in more direct competition among the surviving companies in that segment, heightening the risk of intellectual property infringement claims among those companies, including us. Similarly, consolidation in the enterprise software industry heightens the risk of intellectual property infringement claims among the companies remaining in that industry, including most of our customers. These intellectual property claims could be made for patent, copyright or trademark infringement or for misappropriation of trade secrets. They could be made directly against us, or indirectly through our contractual indemnification obligations to our customers and channel partners. Any claims could result in costly litigation and be time-consuming to defend, divert management's attention and resources, or cause delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be available only on onerous terms, if at all. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover all potential claims or may not be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed. We believe we own the rights in, or have the rights required to use, our SubscribeNet technology. However, there can be no assurance that this technology does not infringe the rights of third parties. In addition, we take steps to verify that end-users who download our customers' software through our SubscribeNet service are entitled to deploy and use that software. However, there can be no assurance that this verification procedure will help us defend against claims by, or protect us against liability to, our customers whose software is downloaded. If our export compliance system fails to prevent unauthorized exports of our customers' software, we could be sanctioned by the U.S. government. Through our SubscribeNet service, we globally distribute software containing encryption technology and other technologies restricted by U.S. laws and regulations from exportation to certain countries, certain types of recipients, and certain specific end-users. Our SubscribeNet solution incorporates automated procedures to help ensure that the software we deliver electronically is not downloaded in violation of U.S. export laws and regulations. However, these procedures may not prevent unauthorized exports of restricted software in every case. If an unauthorized export of software occurs through the SubscribeNet service and the U.S. government determines that we violated the U.S. export laws or regulations, we could be sanctioned under those laws or regulations. Sanctions include fines, suspension or revocation of export privileges, and imprisonment. If our key personnel left the company, our product development, sales, and corporate management could suffer. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. If we lost the services of one or more of our key employees, or if one or more of our executive officers or key employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, this could have a significant adverse effect on our business. The adoption of Statement 123R by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") will cause, and changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices, may cause adverse revenue fluctuations and/or affect our reported results of operations and how we conduct our business. In December 2004, the FASB adopted Statement 123R, "Share-Based Payment," which will require us to measure compensation costs for all employee stock-based compensation (including stock options and our employee stock purchase plan) at fair value and take a compensation charge equal to that value. We will be required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123R during our fiscal quarter beginning March 1, 2006. This new accounting pronouncement will likely have a material effect on our reported financial results. In addition, any future accounting pronouncements, taxation rules, and new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, could also have a significant effect on our reported results, including our reporting of transactions completed before the effective date of the change. Financial and securities laws, especially the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, require that we evaluate our internal control structure. While we believe we currently have adequate internal controls in place, this exercise has no precedent available by which to measure the adequacy of our compliance, and in addition it may cause our operating expenses to increase. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the California Disclosure Act and newly proposed or enacted rules and regulations of the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers impose new duties on us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firms. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such new rules and regulations, we are evaluating our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We are performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required in an effort to comply with the management certification and independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we are incurring additional expenses and diversion of management's time, and we may be required to hire additional personnel and engage additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services. Any of these developments could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income or increase our net losses. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of our testing and resulting remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or The Nasdaq Stock Market, and our reputation may be harmed. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the price of our common stock. Moreover, our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls over our financial reporting will eliminate all risk of error or fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Our disclosure controls or procedures can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the control. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may raise additional capital to fund acquisitions, product development or general operations. Any such capital financing would dilute our shareholders' investments. We may raise additional capital in the future through private or public offerings of stock, or through other means. The purposes of any such financing would be to increase our cash reserves for potential use in acquiring other businesses, product development activities, funding our operations and generally strengthening our balance sheet. Any such additional financing would likely dilute the investments of our current shareholders. If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, services and technologies in the future. We are considerably smaller now than we were when we made our past acquisitions, and therefore any new acquisitions or investments could be more disruptive to our organization than in the past. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; risk of entering new markets; potential write-offs of acquired assets; potential loss of key employees; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; and delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Our current strategy includes the use of strategic marketing relationships, which may prove unsuccessful. We currently have marketing relationships in place with Hewlett Packard and Zomax, and are in the process of negotiating an alliance with Digital River, Inc. ("Digital River") under which Intraware and Digital River will market one another's products and Digital River will obtain a seat on our Board of Directors. It is possible, however, that we will not successfully complete our negotiations with Digital River, or that our relationships with Digital River, Hewlett Packard and/or Zomax will prove less beneficial than we currently expect. If that happens, our business could suffer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 