Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions at the current rate could be materially adversely affected by various risks and uncertainties, including the conditions below. These risk factors may have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual operating and financial results and could cause such results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should not consider this list exhaustive. New risk factors emerge periodically, and we cannot assure you that the factors described below list all material risks to us at any later time. The recent financial and economic crisis adversely affected our business, and the continued uncertainty in the global economic environment may adversely affect our business in the future. We and our managed funds are impacted by macro-economic environmental factors, the capital markets, and general conditions in the commercial real estate market, both in the U.S. and globally. During 2011 we saw slow improvement in the U.S. economy following the significant distress experienced in 2008 and 2009. Toward the end of 2011, however, there was an increase in international economic uncertainty as a result of the sovereign debt crisis and a deterioration of economic fundamentals in Europe. To date, these crises have had a limited impact on our business, primarily in that a number of tenants, particularly in the portfolios of the CPA® REITs, have experienced increased levels of financial distress, with several having filed for bankruptcy protection, although our experience in 2011 reflected an improvement from 2009 and 2010. Currently, conditions in the U.S. appear to have stabilized, while the situation in Europe remains uncertain. If the economic situation worsens, we could in the future experience a number of additional effects on our business, including higher levels of default in the payment of rent by our tenants, additional bankruptcies and impairments in the value of our property investments, as well as difficulties in financing transactions and refinancing existing loans as they come due. Any of these conditions may negatively affect our earnings, as well as our cash flow and, consequently, our ability to sustain the payment of dividends at current levels. Our managed funds may also be adversely affected by these conditions, and their earnings or cash flow may also be adversely affected by other events, such as increases in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies in which they receive rent, as well as the need to expend cash to fund increased redemptions. Additionally, the ability of CPA®:17 – Global and CWI to make new investments will be affected by the availability of financing as well as their ability to raise new funds. Decreases in the value of the assets held by the REITs will adversely affect the asset management revenues payable to us, as well as the value of the stock we hold in the REITs, and decreases in these funds’ earnings or ability to pay distributions may also affect their ability to make the payments due to us, as well as our income and cash flow from the REIT distribution payments. Earnings from our investment management operations are subject to volatility. Growth in revenue from our investment management operations is dependent in large part on future capital raising in existing or future managed entities, as well as on our ability to make investments that meet the investment criteria of these entities, both of which are subject to uncertainty with respect to capital market and real estate market conditions. This uncertainty creates volatility in our earnings because of the resulting fluctuation in transaction-based revenue. Asset management revenue may be affected by factors that include not only our ability to increase the REITs’ portfolio of properties under management, but also changes in valuation of those properties, as well as sales of the REIT properties. In addition, revenue from our investment management operations, including our ability to earn performance revenue, as well as the value of our holdings of the REIT interests and dividend income from those interests, may be significantly affected by the results of operations of the REITs, in particular, those of CPA®:15 and CPA®:16 – Global, since at December 31, 2011 we owned 7.7% and 17.9% of their outstanding shares, respectively. Each of the CPA® REITs has invested substantially all of its assets (other than short-term investments) in triple-net leased properties substantially similar to those we hold, and consequently the results of operations of, and cash available for distribution by, each of the CPA® REITs, is likely to be substantially affected by the same market conditions, and subject to the same risk factors, as the properties we own. Four of the sixteen CPA® funds temporarily reduced the rate of distributions to their investors as a result of adverse developments involving tenants. Each of the REITs we currently manage may incur significant debt, which either due to liquidity problems or restrictive covenants contained in their borrowing agreements, could restrict their ability to pay revenue owed to us when due. In addition, the revenue payable under each of our current investment advisory agreements is subject to a variable annual cap based on a formula tied to the assets and income of that REIT. This cap may limit the growth of our management revenue. Furthermore, our ability to earn revenue W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 14 related to the disposition of properties is primarily tied to providing liquidity events for the REIT investors. Our ability to provide that liquidity, and to do so under circumstances that will satisfy the applicable subordination requirements noted above in Item 1, Business — Other Revenue, will depend on market conditions at the relevant time, which may vary considerably over a period of years. In any case, liquidity events typically occur several years apart, and income from our investment management operations is likely to be significantly higher in those years in which such events occur. The revenue streams from the investment advisory agreements with the REITs are subject to limitation or cancellation. The agreements under which we provide investment advisory services are renewable annually in September and may generally be terminated by each REIT upon 60 days’ notice, with or without cause, and while the agreement with CWI was renewed for an additional one-year term in September 2011, the agreements that are currently in effect with each of CPA®:15, CPA®:16 – Global and CPA®:17 – Global were renewed for two three-month terms and are currently scheduled to expire on March 31, 2012 unless otherwise renewed. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not expire or be terminated. If the Proposed Merger is consummated, we have agreed to waive fees to which we were formerly entitled including termination revenue from CPA®:15 equal to 15% of the amount by which the net fair value of CPA®:15’s assets exceeds the remaining amount necessary to provide investors with total distributions equal to their investment plus a preferred return. CPA®:17 – Global, CPA®:16 – Global and CWI have the right, but not the obligation, upon certain terminations to repurchase our interests in their operating partnerships at fair market value. If such right is not exercised, we would remain as a limited partner of the operating partnerships. Nonetheless, any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in investor preferences or market conditions could limit our ability to raise funds or make new investments. Substantially all of our and the CPA® REITs’ current investments, as well as the majority of the investments we expect to originate for the CPA® REITs in the near term, are investments in single-tenant commercial properties that are subject to triple-net leases. In addition, we have relied predominantly on raising funds from individual investors through the sale by participating selected dealers to their customers of publicly-registered, non-traded securities of the REITs. Although we have increased the number of broker-dealers we use for fundraising, historically the majority of our fundraising efforts have been through one major selected dealer. If, as a result of changes in market receptivity to investments that are not readily liquid and involve high selected dealer fees, or for other reasons, this capital raising method were to become less available as a source of capital, our ability to raise funds for the REIT programs, and consequently our ability to make investments on their behalf, could be adversely affected. While we are not limited to this particular method of raising funds for investment (and, among other things, the REITs may themselves be able to borrow additional funds to invest), our experience with other means of raising capital is limited. Also, many factors, including changes in tax laws or accounting rules, may make these types of investments less attractive to potential sellers and lessees, which could negatively affect our ability to increase the amount of assets of this type under management. We face active competition. In raising funds for investment by the REITs, we face competition from other funds with similar investment objectives that seek to raise funds from investors through publicly registered, non-traded funds, publicly-traded funds and private funds. This competition could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions and to raise funds for future investments, which in turn could ultimately reduce, or limit the growth of, revenues from our investment management operations. We face active competition for our investments from many sources, including insurance companies, credit companies, pension funds, private individuals, financial institutions, finance companies and investment companies, among others. These institutions may accept greater risk or lower returns, allowing them to offer more attractive terms to prospective tenants. In addition, our evaluation of the acceptability of rates of return on behalf of the REITs is affected by such factors as the cost of raising capital, the amount of revenue we can earn and the performance hurdle rates of the relevant REITs. Thus, the effect of the cost of raising capital and the revenue we can earn may be to limit the amount of new investments we make on behalf of the REITs, which will in turn limit the growth of revenues from our investment management operations. A substantial amount of our leases will expire within the next three years, and we may have difficulty in re-leasing or selling our properties if tenants do not renew their leases. Within the next three years, approximately 31% of our leases, based on annualized contractual minimum base rent, are due to expire, including 13% in the next 12 months. If these leases are not renewed, or if the properties cannot be re-leased on terms that yield payments comparable to those currently being received, then our lease revenues could be substantially adversely affected. The terms of any new or renewed leases of these properties may depend on market conditions prevailing at the time of lease expiration. In addition, if properties are vacated by the current tenants, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to re-lease such properties. We may also seek to sell these properties, in which event we may incur losses, depending upon market conditions prevailing at the time of sale. W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 15 Real estate investments generally lack liquidity compared to other financial assets, and this lack of liquidity will limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Some of our net leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular needs of the tenant. With these properties, we may be required to renovate the property or to make rent concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In addition, if we are forced to sell the property, we may have difficulty selling it to a party other than the tenant due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed. These and other limitations may affect our ability to re-lease or sell properties without adversely affecting returns to shareholders. Our portfolio growth is constrained by our obligations to offer property transactions to the REITs. Under our investment advisory agreements with the REITs, we are required to use our best efforts to present a continuing and suitable investment program to them. In recent years, new property investment opportunities have generally been made available by us to the REITs. While the allocation of new investments to the REITs fulfills our duty to present a continuing and suitable investment program and enhances the revenues from our investment management operations, it also restricts the potential growth of revenues from our real estate ownership and our ability to diversify our portfolio. International investments involve additional risks. We have invested in and may continue to invest in properties located outside the U.S. At December 31, 2011, our directly-owned real estate properties located outside of the U.S. represented 10% of current annualized contractual minimum base rent. These investments may be affected by factors particular to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. These investments may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the U.S., including: • changing governmental rules and policies; • enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of property and laws relating to the ability of foreign entities to remove invested capital or profits earned from activities within the country to the U.S.; • expropriation of investments; • legal systems under which the ability to enforce contractual rights and remedies may be more limited than would be the case under U.S. law; • difficulty in conforming obligations in other countries and the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, which may be more stringent than U.S. laws, including tax requirements and land use, zoning, and environmental laws, as well as changes in such laws; • adverse market conditions caused by changes in national or local economic or political conditions; • tax requirements vary by country and we may be subject to additional taxes as a result of our international investments; • changes in relative interest rates; • changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; • changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; • changes in land use and zoning laws; • more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws; and • restrictions and/or significant costs in repatriating cash and cash equivalents held in foreign bank accounts. In addition, the lack of publicly available information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) could impair our ability to analyze transactions and may cause us to forego an investment opportunity for ourselves or the REITs. It may also impair our ability to receive timely and accurate financial information from tenants necessary to meet our and the REITs’ reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies. Certain of these risks may be greater in emerging markets and less developed countries. Our expertise to date is primarily in the U.S. and Europe, and we have less experience in other international markets. We may not be as familiar with the potential risks to our and the REITs’ investments outside the U.S. and Europe and we could incur losses as a result. Also, we may rely on third-party asset managers in international jurisdictions to monitor compliance with legal requirements and lending agreements with respect to properties we own or manage on behalf of the REITs. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may expose us or our operating subsidiaries to additional liabilities. Moreover, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. Our principal currency exposure is to the Euro. We attempt to mitigate a portion of the risk of currency fluctuation by financing our properties in the local currency denominations, although there can be no assurance that this will be effective. Because we generally place both our debt obligation to the lender and the tenant’s rental obligation to us in the same currency, our results of foreign operations benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies; that is, absent other considerations, a weaker U.S. dollar will tend to increase both our revenues and our expenses, while a stronger U.S. dollar will tend to reduce both our revenues and our expenses. W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 16 We may recognize substantial impairment charges on our properties. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, substantial impairment charges, which we are required to recognize whenever we sell a property for less than its carrying value or we determine that the carrying amount of the property is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value (or, for direct financing leases, that the unguaranteed residual value of the underlying property has declined). By their nature, the timing or extent of impairment charges are not predictable. We may incur non-cash impairment charges in the future, which may reduce our net income. Our use of debt to finance investments could adversely affect our cash flow. Most of our investments are made by borrowing a portion of the total investment and securing the loan with a mortgage on the property. We generally borrow on a non-recourse basis to limit our exposure on any property to the amount of equity invested in the property. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. Additionally, lenders for our international mortgage loan transactions typically incorporate covenants and other provisions that can cause a loan default, including a loan to value ratio, a debt service coverage ratio and a material adverse change in the borrower’s or tenant’s business. Accordingly, if the real estate value declines or the tenant defaults, the lender would have the right to foreclose on its security. If any of these events were to occur, it could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which in turn could cause the value of our portfolio, and revenues available for distribution to our shareholders, to be reduced. Some of our financing may also require us to make a balloon payment at maturity. Our ability to make balloon payments on debt will depend upon our ability either to refinance the obligation when due, invest additional equity in the property or to sell the related property. When the balloon payment is due, we may be unable to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available mortgage rates, availability of credit, our equity in the mortgaged properties, our financial condition, the operating history of the mortgaged properties and tax laws. A refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to shareholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. Our leases may permit tenants to purchase a property at a predetermined price, which could limit our realization of any appreciation or result in a loss. In some circumstances, we may grant tenants a right to repurchase the property they lease from us. The purchase price may be a fixed price or it may be based on a formula or the market value at the time of exercise. If a tenant exercises its right to purchase the property and the property’s market value has increased beyond that price, we could be limited in fully realizing the appreciation on that property. Additionally, if the price at which the tenant can purchase the property is less than our carrying value (for example, where the purchase price is based on an appraised value), we may incur a loss. We do not fully control the management of our properties. The tenants or managers of net leased properties are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of the properties. If a property is not adequately maintained in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease, we may incur expenses for deferred maintenance expenditures or other liabilities once the property becomes free of the lease. While our leases generally provide for recourse against the tenant in these instances, a bankrupt or financially troubled tenant may be more likely to defer maintenance and it may be more difficult to enforce remedies against such a tenant. In addition, to the extent tenants are unable to conduct their operation of the property on a financially successful basis, their ability to pay rent may be adversely affected. Although we endeavor to monitor, on an ongoing basis, compliance by tenants with their lease obligations and other factors that could affect the financial performance of our properties, such monitoring may not in all circumstances ascertain or forestall deterioration either in the condition of a property or the financial circumstances of a tenant. W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 17 The value of our real estate is subject to fluctuation. We are subject to all of the general risks associated with the ownership of real estate. While the revenues from our leases and those of the REITs are not directly dependent upon the value of the real estate owned, significant declines in real estate values could adversely affect us in many ways, including a decline in the residual values of properties at lease expiration; possible lease abandonments by tenants; a decline in the attractiveness of REIT investments that may impede our ability to raise new funds for investment by the REITs and a decline in the attractiveness of triple-net lease transactions to potential sellers. We also face the risk that lease revenue will be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses and debt service payments on indebtedness we incur. General risks associated with the ownership of real estate include: • adverse changes in general or local economic conditions; • changes in the supply of or demand for similar or competing properties; • changes in interest rates and operating expenses; • competition for tenants; • changes in market rental rates; • inability to lease or sell properties upon termination of existing leases; • renewal of leases at lower rental rates; • inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy; • changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate; • uninsured property liability, property damage or casualty losses; • unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws; • exposure to environmental losses; • changes in foreign exchange rates; and • acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. The inability of a tenant in a single-tenant property to pay rent will reduce our revenues. Most of our properties are occupied by a single tenant and, therefore, the success of our investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants. Revenues from several of our tenants/guarantors constitute a significant percentage of our lease revenues. Our five largest tenants/guarantors represented approximately 33%, 34% and 37% of total lease revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Lease payment defaults by tenants negatively impact our net income and reduce the amounts available for distributions to shareholders. As some of our tenants may not have a recognized credit rating, they may have a higher risk of lease defaults than if those tenants had a recognized credit rating. In addition, the bankruptcy of a tenant could cause the loss of lease payments as well as an increase in the costs incurred to carry the property until it can be re-leased or sold. We have had tenants file for bankruptcy protection. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting the investment and re-leasing the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. The bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or borrowers may cause a reduction in revenue. Bankruptcy or insolvency of a tenant or borrower could cause: • the loss of lease or interest and principal payments; • an increase in the costs incurred to carry the property; • litigation; • a reduction in the value of our shares; and • a decrease in distributions to our shareholders. Under U.S. bankruptcy law, a tenant who is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings has the option of assuming or rejecting any unexpired lease. If the tenant rejects the lease, any resulting claim we have for breach of the lease (excluding collateral securing the claim) will be treated as a general unsecured claim. The maximum claim will be capped at the amount owed for unpaid rent prior to the bankruptcy unrelated to the termination, plus the greater of one year’s lease payments or 15% of the remaining lease payments payable under the lease (but no more than three years’ lease payments). In addition, due to the long-term nature of our leases and, in some cases, terms providing for the repurchase of a property by the tenant, a bankruptcy court could recharacterize a net lease transaction as a secured lending transaction. If that were to occur, we would not be treated as the owner of the property, but we might have rights as a secured creditor. Those rights would not include a right to compel the tenant to timely perform its obligations under the lease but may instead entitle us to “adequate protection,” a bankruptcy concept that applies to protect against a decrease in the value of the property if the value of the property is less than the balance owed to us. W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 18 Insolvency laws outside of the U.S. may not be as favorable to reorganization or to the protection of a debtor’s rights as tenants under a lease as are the laws in the U.S. Our rights to terminate a lease for default may be more likely to be enforceable in countries other than the U.S., in which a debtor/ tenant or its insolvency representative may be less likely to have rights to force continuation of a lease without our consent. Nonetheless, such laws may permit a tenant or an appointed insolvency representative to terminate a lease if it so chooses. However, in circumstances where the bankruptcy laws of the U.S. are considered to be more favorable to debtors and to their reorganization, entities that are not ordinarily perceived as U.S. entities may seek to take advantage of the U.S. bankruptcy laws if they are eligible. An entity would be eligible to be a debtor under the U.S. bankruptcy laws if it had a domicile (state of incorporation or registration), place of business or assets in the U.S. If a tenant became a debtor under the U.S. bankruptcy laws, then it would have the option of assuming or rejecting any unexpired lease. As a general matter, after the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings and prior to assumption or rejection of an expired lease, U.S. bankruptcy laws provide that until an unexpired lease is assumed or rejected, the tenant (or its trustee if one has been appointed) must timely perform obligations of the tenant under the lease. However, under certain circumstances, the time period for performance of such obligations may be extended by an order of the bankruptcy court. We and the CPA® REITs have had tenants file for bankruptcy protection and have been involved in bankruptcy-related litigation (including several international tenants). Four prior CPA® REITs reduced the rate of distributions to their investors as a result of adverse developments involving tenants. Similarly, if a borrower under one of our loan transactions declares bankruptcy, there may not be sufficient funds to satisfy its payment obligations to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and distributions to our shareholders. The mortgage loans in which we may invest and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities in which we may invest may be subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. We are subject to possible liabilities relating to environmental matters. We own commercial properties and are subject to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws. These responsibilities and liabilities also exist for properties owned by the REITs and if they become liable for these costs, their ability to pay for our services could be materially affected. Some of these laws could impose the following on us: • responsibility and liability for the cost of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances released on or from our property, generally without regard to our knowledge of, or responsibility for, the presence of these contaminants; • liability for the costs of investigation and removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of such substances; • liability for claims by third parties based on damages to natural resources or property, personal injuries, or costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances in, on, or migrating from our property; • responsibility for managing asbestos-containing building materials, and third-party claims for exposure to those materials; and • claims being made against us by the REITs for inadequate due diligence. Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances, or for third-party claims for damages, may be substantial. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances at any of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could give rise to a lien in favor of the government for costs it may incur to address the contamination or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. While we attempt to mitigate identified environmental risks by contractually requiring tenants to acknowledge their responsibility for complying with environmental laws and to assume liability for environmental matters, circumstances may arise in which a tenant fails, or is unable, to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, environmental liabilities, or costs or operating limitations imposed on a tenant to comply with environmental laws, could affect its ability to make rental payments to us. Also, and although we endeavor to avoid doing so, we may be required, in connection with any future divestitures of property, to provide buyers with indemnification against potential environmental liabilities. A potential change in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of facilities less attractive to our potential domestic tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services. Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. This situation is considered to be met if, among other things, the non-cancelable lease term is more than 75% of the useful life of the asset or if the present value of the minimum lease payments equals 90% or more of the leased property’s fair value. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant and the obligation does not appear on the tenant’s balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 19 obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant’s balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. In response to concerns caused by a 2005 SEC study that the current model does not have sufficient transparency, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) issued an Exposure Draft on a joint proposal that would dramatically transform lease accounting from the existing model. The FASB and IASB met during July 2011 and voted to re-expose the proposed standard. A revised exposure draft for public comment is currently expected to be issued in the first half of 2012, with a final standard is currently expected to be issued during 2012. As of the date of this Report, the proposed guidance has not yet been finalized. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our and the REITs’ accounting for leases as well as that of our and the REITs’ tenants. These changes would impact most companies but are particularly applicable to those that are significant users of real estate. The proposal outlines a completely new model for accounting by lessees, whereby their rights and obligations under all leases, existing and new, would be capitalized and recorded on the balance sheet. For some companies, the new accounting guidance may influence whether or not, or the extent to which, they may enter into the type of sale-leaseback transactions in which we specialize. Proposed legislation may prevent us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may significantly increase our tax liability and may affect the market value of our shares. Members of the U.S. Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly traded partnership rules. If this or any similar legislation or regulation were to be enacted and to apply to us, we would incur a material increase in our tax liability and the market value of our shares could decline materially. We depend on key personnel for our future success. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of these executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations, and they require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates, judgments and assumptions associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make subsequent significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements. If our judgments, assumptions and allocations prove to be incorrect, or if circumstances change, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expense, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. The Proposed Merger is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Proposed Merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, many of which are outside of our control, and there can be no assurance that the Proposed Merger will be completed. The conditions include the receipt of approvals from our and CPA 15’s shareholders, the completion of our conversion to a REIT, the occurrence of no changes constituting a material adverse effect, the receipt of third-party consents and the receipt of tax opinions. Our governing documents and capital structure may discourage a takeover. Our Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement, our LLC Agreement, provides that “Control Shares” (as defined below) acquired in a “Control Share Acquisition” (as defined below) have no voting rights, except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Control Shares are defined in our LLC Agreement as voting shares that, if aggregated with all other shares owned by an acquiring person, or in respect of which the acquiring person is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiring person to exercise voting power within one of the following ranges of voting power: • one-fifth or more but less than one-third; • one-third or more but less than a majority; or • a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A Control Share Acquisition means the acquisition of Control Shares, subject to certain exceptions. A person who has made or proposes to make a Control Share Acquisition may compel our board of directors to call a special meeting of shareholders to be held within 50 days of demand to consider the voting rights of the shares. If no request for a meeting is made, we may present the question at any shareholders meeting. W. P. Carey 2011 10-K — 20 If an acquiring person delivers to us an “Acquiring Person statement” (the substance of which is described in our LLC Agreement) within 10 days of acquiring Control Shares, we may redeem, at the fair value, any or all of Control Shares within 60 days of the shareholder meeting where voting rights were not approved, except for those Control Shares where two-thirds of disinterested shareholders have given prior approval for the exercise of the voting rights. If an Acquiring Person does not deliver to us an Acquiring Person statement within 10 days of acquiring Control Shares, we may redeem, at the fair value, all Control Shares, including those for which voting rights have been previously approved, during a period that begins on the 11th day following the acquisition of Control Shares and ending 60 days after the acquiring person delivers the Acquiring Person statement. Fair value is determined as of the date of the last Control Share Acquisition by the acquiror or of any meeting of shareholders at which the voting rights of the shares were considered. The Control Share Acquisition provision does not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we are a party to the transaction. The Control Share provision outlined above may discourage a tender offer for our shares or a hostile takeover, even though these may be attractive to shareholders Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 