ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements and Certain Risks The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements regard our expectations, hopes, beliefs, commitments, intentions, and strategies regarding the future. They may be identified by the use of words or phrases, such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “should,” “plan,” “estimate,” and “potential,” among others. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements contained in “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” regarding our financial performance, revenue and expense levels in the future, and the sufficiency of our existing assets to fund future operations and capital spending needs. Actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements or for the reasons discussed below. The fact that some of the risk factors may be the same or similar to past reports we have filed with the SEC means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks detailed here are part of doing business in the industry in which we operate and compete and will likely be present in all periods reported. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen their significance. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are made as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update them or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the effect of certain events on our operating results is inherently uncertain. Therefore, we caution each reader of this report to carefully consider the following factors and certain other factors discussed herein and in other past filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that could cause or contribute to our actual results differing materially from those discussed herein and in any forward looking statement or adversely affect the price of our Common Stock include, but are not limited to, the following factors: Specific Corporate Risks: Reduced Product Liability Insurance Coverage and Exposure to Product Liability Claims. As with other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products designed for human consumption, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. We may be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. In addition, although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the quarantine and testing of raw materials and qualitative and quantitative testing of selected finished products, there can be no assurance that the our products will not contain contaminated substances. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third party manufacturers for our products. Natrol and its other brands, Laci Le Beau and Prolab, have each sold ephedrine-based products in past years. The volume of such sales has not been large relative to the overall sales and, as of March 31, 2003, we stopped selling or manufacturing ephedrine-based products. The sale of ephedrine-based products in the United Stated was banned by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in February 2004. Since 2002, product liability insurance for ephedrine-based products has been generally unavailable. Occurrence-based product liability insurance became unavailable during the fourth quarter of 2002. “Claims-made insurance,” was offered to us only with substantially lower limits than we had carried in prior years and at rates that were many times higher than those paid in prior years. As of July, 2003, we chose to self-insure against product liability claims due to the high price of product liability insurance, the inability to secure occurrence based coverage, as well as the limited amount of coverage provided by insurers willing to provide insurance at high prices. We deposited $5.0 million for a five-year policy term 13 with an insurance carrier who provides certificates of insurance to our vendors. The $5.0 million earns interest and is classified as a non-current asset entitled “Restricted Cash” on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The $5.0 million is fully refundable should we decide to end the self-insurance program at the end of the policy term. There can be no assurance that insurance will, in future years, be available at a reasonable cost or available with limits that meet the requirements of our customer base, or, if available, will be adequate to cover liabilities or that any insurance carrier will be willing to continue assisting us with our self insurance program in future years. Accordingly, if insurance coverage is inadequate or unavailable, we may face additional claims not covered by insurance, claims that exceed coverage limits or that are not covered, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In order to limit exposure to lawsuits, we generally seek contractual indemnification from parties supplying raw materials for our products or manufacturing or marketing our products, and request to be added as an additional insured under such parties’ insurance policies. Any such indemnification or insurance is limited by its terms and any such indemnification, as a practical matter, is limited to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to our products or contract manufacturing activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are many other reasons we can be sued other than for product liability. The cost of defending ourselves from legal claims, no matter how spurious, can be high. The cost of defense can be substantially higher than the cost of settlement even when claims are not factually based. The high cost of legal fees to defend or settle litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on New Products. We believe that to grow revenue year after year, we need to constantly develop or acquire new products. We attempt to introduce additional products each year. The success of new products is dependent upon a variety of factors, including our ability to develop products that will appeal to consumers and respond to market trends in a timely manner. Obtaining distribution for new products is difficult and often expensive due to slotting and other promotional charges that are mandated by retailers. New products often have to be promoted heavily in the media in order to gain visibility and consumer acceptance. There can be no assurance that our efforts to develop new products will be successful or that consumers will want to buy our new products. New products can often take substantial periods of time to develop consumer awareness, consumer acceptance and sales volume. Some new products fail and as a result have to be discontinued. In addition, products currently experiencing strong popularity and rapid growth may not maintain their sales volumes over time. For example, our sales of Carb Intercept grew consistently in 2003 and 2004 reaching $11.0 million in gross shipments in 2004. In 2005, gross shipments of Carb Intercept fell to $1.8 million. We believe that this downturn was due to negative publicity (see: Effect of Unfavorable Publicity) surrounding the low-carbohydrate Atkins diet that was disseminated during the last quarter of 2004. Product Returns. Product returns are a part of our business. While customers generally do not have an absolute right of return, products may be returned for various reasons including expiration dates or lack of sufficient sales velocity. Another reason for returns is the loss of a significant account or the purchase of one customer by another. In late 2004, the Eckerd drug store chain was sold by its parent company, J.C. Penney, to the CVS and the Brooks drugstore chains. When one chain is bought by another, the vendors to the acquired retailer will gain or lose business depending upon the intent of the acquiring company. In the case of the Eckerd acquisition, Eckerd carried more of our products than did CVS and Brooks at the time of the acquisition. The result was that during 2005, CVS and Brooks returned $0.9 million more of our products than in 2004. The number of our items carried in the old Eckerd stores was reduced. We are working to expand our shelf space at these chains but there is no guarantee that our shelf space will expand 14 in the immediate future. How a consolidation will affect a vendor is difficult to quantify in exact terms immediately after the announced consolidating event because representatives of the acquirer and the acquired business are most often difficult to reach and IT systems in each company typically do not work well with each other. The result is that smaller vendors often have to wait for months before being able to obtain an accurate description of the acquirer’s plans. The returns were posted as a reduction of gross sales thereby reducing net revenue. We accrue allowances for returns based on historical data and future expectations. During 2005, returns and charges for damages and outdated products amounted to approximately 6.2% of gross shipments, more than the 3.5% or 4.7% rates experienced in 2004 and 2003, respectively. We continually work to lessen the impact of returns through the management of our SKU count at retail establishments and the more effective use of sales and marketing programs. Even so, there is no guarantee that future returns will not equal or exceed the levels experienced in years prior to 2003 when returns amounted to as much as 14.5% of gross shipments. It is our policy to review our retail base on a customer-by-customer basis and to accrue for returns as soon as estimates can be reasonably calculated. Inventory Risk. Our products are tested for stability and each product has an associated expiration date after which the product cannot be sold. Expiration dates can be as short as months or, in some cases, as long as four years. In order to provide the freshest product possible, we make every attempt to manufacture product on a just-in-time basis. However, as sales trends change, it is possible for us to over-produce finished goods inventory or have excess raw materials which are not used before their expiration dates. We regularly dispose of overstocked finished goods and expired raw material inventory. When sales trends change too rapidly or when manufacturing planning does not estimate future demand accurately, we then have to write off inventory, which affects our results of operations during the period in which the write-downs of inventory occur. In 2005, we wrote off $1.9 million of inventory, nearly 2.5 times the amount we wrote off in 2004 due in a large part to the sharp fall off of Carb Intercept sales in early 2005. We closely monitor our inventory and we regularly review inventory levels, the velocity of sales, and raw material and component usage relative to inventory. Our goal is to ensure that inventory on hand is fairly valued; is good and usable; and, that potentially unusable inventory is adequately reserved at the earliest possible time. Distribution Gains. An important element of our business strategy is to gain additional distribution in the various channels of trade that provide vitamins and other supplements to consumers. Our salespeople are constantly looking for new avenues in which to sell our products and we are always making an effort to gain additional distribution for profitable and rapidly selling products in existing accounts. Our failure to make additional distribution gains or to maintain current distribution and expand sales of core products could have an adverse material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cost of Retail Relationships. Many large retailers require various forms of incentive programs in order to develop branded sales with them. These programs include slotting fees, coop advertising programs, rebate incentives, price off promotions, scandowns and other forms of support. We continually evaluate specific programs to ascertain the profitability of potential business from each retailer. Because these programs are expensive, we may decide that we cannot profitably do business with a retailer. This may cause us to stop doing business with existing customers or not allow us to enter into a business relationship with a potential new customer, each of which in turn could dampen future revenue growth. In 2005, approximately 13.6% of the revenue from gross shipments was allocated to such support programs. Dependence on Significant Customers. One major customer represented more than 10% of gross sales in 2005. This customer accounted for approximately 12.8% of net sales. No major customer during 15 2004 represented 10% of net sales. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 50.5% of our business. There is no assurance that our major customers will continue to be major customers. The loss of a significant number of major customers, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by a major customer, and/or the financial difficulty of a major customer, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ability to Execute Our Business Plans. Our recent financial performance may limit our ability to execute our business plan. In reaction to our financial performance, we have worked to manage expenses such as payroll and advertising and we are striving to ensure our future profitability. But limited resources and restrictions on expenditures may have a long-term effect on revenue growth. Should industry and general economic trends for the nation as a whole be difficult, we may have to further reduce payroll as well as other forms of overhead and fixed expenses. Such cutbacks could affect, in a negative manner, our long-term growth. Additionally, we may not be able to increase revenue and reduce expenses as rapidly as is necessary to become profitable quickly. If corporate or industry trends strengthen in a strong, positive way resulting in the sudden growth of our revenues, our management, operations, sales and administrative personnel and other resources may be strained in the short term. Attracting, training, motivating, managing and retaining qualified employees may be difficult in the short term. No assurance can be given that our business will grow in the future or that we will be able to effectively return to profitability. Our inability to manage growth or negative growth successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may have to substantially alter our business strategy and redeploy assets to grow the business. While such decisions would be made with the expectation that of long-term benefit to the corporation, in the short-term, such decisions could have a negative impact on revenue and net income. There is no guarantee that our efforts will succeed. Risks Associated with Acquisitions. In order to grow, we may have to alter our core business strategy to more aggressively pursue acquisitions that will help us grow our revenue and take advantage of the infrastructure we have in place. Acquisitions, however, do not come without risk. Acquisitions may require an expenditure of cash, the issuance of stock or the assumption of different forms of debt, which may dilute current shareholders. Acquisitions inevitably require the attention of senior management and an acquisition could cause us to lose focus on our core business. Integrating an acquisition is often difficult and a difficult integration could result in our spending more than expected and could result in poorer results than anticipated at the time of the acquisition’s announcement. And, even if we devote resources to finding suitable acquisitions, such acquisitions may not materialize for many business reasons. There is no guarantee that a suitable acquisition at terms we believe are appropriate can be consummated in the near future or at all. Absence of Conclusive Clinical Studies. Although many of the ingredients in our products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption, some of our products contain ingredients with a less developed history of use and effects. Accordingly, our products are evaluated to identify any harmful side effects. However, very few of our products have been tested through extensive clinical studies. Any unintended and unconnected effects may result in adverse publicity or product liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Supply of Raw Materials. We obtain all of our raw materials from third-party suppliers. Many of the raw materials are harvested internationally. We do not have significant long-term contracts with any supplier committing the supplier to provide us with materials. During the last decade, 16 coenzyme Q10, natural vitamin E, beta-carotene and melatonin have had significant price fluctuations as a result of short supply and/or increases in demand. We have experienced occasional shortages of raw materials for a limited number of products. There can be no assurance that suppliers will provide the raw materials we need in the quantities we need at prices we are willing pay. We also sell a limited number of products under the supplier’s trademark. The most significant of these is our Ester-C line of products, which accounts for approximately 12.2% of our gross sales in 2005. When we market products under the supplier’s trademark, we are limited to that single supplier as a source of raw materials for that product. As a result, any shortage of raw materials from that supplier would adversely affect our ability to manufacture that product. Because we do not control the actual production of these raw materials, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production of materials based on conditions not within our control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. As a result, any shortage of raw materials from that supplier would adversely affect our ability to manufacture that product. Price increases from such suppliers would directly affect our profitability when we are not able to pass price increases on to customers. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase goods from a variety of vendors. Two vendors each accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of raw material in 2005. Three vendors each accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of raw materials in 2004. The loss of a large vendor could have a material impact on our ability to source raw material and manufacture finished product associated with the raw materials supplied by any one of these vendors. The result could be a material and adverse effect on our profitability. Sales and Earnings Volatility. Our sales and earnings have been volatile and continue to be subject to volatility based upon, among other things: (i) trends and general conditions in the dietary supplement industry and our ability to recognize such trends and effectively introduce and market new products in response to such trends; (ii) the introduction of new products by us or competitors; (iii) the loss of one or more significant customers; (iv) increased media attention on the use and efficacy of dietary supplements; (v) consumers’ perceptions of our products and those of competitors; (vi) the availability of raw materials from suppliers; and, (vii) our ability to accurately predict inventory needs so that we do not overstock items which eventually must be written off due to low demand, or, that we fail to stock enough of an item so that sales are not lost due to lack of supply. Sales and earnings volatility as a result of the foregoing factors may affect our operating results from period to period, which may adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Risks Associated with Manufacturing. Our results are dependent upon the continued operation of our manufacturing facility in Chatsworth, California at its current levels. The operation of dietary supplement manufacturing plants involves many risks, including the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives of government agencies, including the FDA. In particular, our manufacturing facility is located in Southern California, a geographic area that has historically been prone to earthquakes, which in some cases have been catastrophic. Prior to our build-out of the building in which our manufacturing facility is located, the building was severely damaged in a major earthquake in 1994, the epicenter of which was within five miles of the building. Although the building was rebuilt with an enhanced ability to withstand earthquakes and conforms to current local and state code requirements, our manufacturing facility could be damaged or destroyed in the event of an earthquake. Any such damage or destruction would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry earthquake insurance on our facilities. In addition, our softgel and liquid products, the Laci Le Beau tea products, as well as all of Prolab’s non-tablet and capsule products, which make up a majority of Prolab’s business, are 17 manufactured by third party contractors. Our profit margins on these products and our ability to deliver these products on a timely basis are dependent upon the ability of the outside manufacturers to continue to supply products that meet our quality standards in a timely and cost-efficient manner. The occurrence of any of the foregoing or other material operational problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations during the period of such operational difficulties. Reliance on Independent Brokers. We place a degree of reliance on a network of independent brokers to act as our first-line sales force to mass-market retailers. Although we employ seasoned sales professionals to closely monitor the brokers, such brokers are not employed or otherwise controlled by us and are generally free to conduct their business at their own discretion. Although these brokers enter into contracts with us, such contracts typically can be terminated upon 30 days notice by the independent broker or us. Intellectual Property Protection. Our policy is to pursue registrations for all of the trademarks associated with key products. We rely on common law trademark rights to protect unregistered trademarks as well as trade dress rights. Common law trademark rights generally are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used, while a United States federal registration of a trademark enables the registrant to stop the unauthorized use of the trademark by any third party anywhere in the United States. We intend to register our trademarks in certain foreign jurisdictions where the products are sold but we may not register all or even some or our trademarks in every country in which we sell our products or intend to sell our products. However, the protection available, if any, in such jurisdictions may not be as extensive as the protection available in the United States. We have few patents on our products and no material business is derived from those items that are patented. To the extent we do not have patents, another company may replicate one or more of our products. Additionally, we sell a number of products that include patented ingredients, purchasing those patented ingredients as a direct licensee of the rights holder or from parties that we believe have the right to manufacture and/or sell those ingredients to us. Furthermore, there are several patents that have been issued and/or applied for connected to dietary supplements and their ingredients, possibly resulting in third parties seeking to compel us and our competitors to purchase patented ingredients, which are usually more costly than non-patented ingredients. Although we try to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us; claims that may result in significant costs and diversion of other assets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If an infringement claim is asserted or litigation filed, we may be required to pay for a license to certain rights, paying royalties on both a retrospective and prospective basis, and/or cease our manufacturing and sale of certain products that are alleged to be infringing. There can be no assurance that future claims asserted by third parties will not adversely impact our business, our financial condition or results of operations. Possible Volatility of Stock Price. There can be no assurance that an active market in our stock will be sustained. The trading price of the Common Stock has historically been subject to wide fluctuations and daily trading volume is relatively low. The price of the Common Stock may fluctuate in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, material announcements by us or competitors, governmental regulatory action, conditions in the dietary supplement industry, or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market prices of many dietary supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of such companies. In addition, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the Common Stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. 18 Risk Associated with Large Controlling Shareholders. Our public float is relatively small, consisting of less than 30% of our issued shares. As of year-end 2005, our top five shareholders owned approximately 77% of our stock. The decision by any one of these shareholders to sell their interest could materially and adversely affect the share price. In addition, on February 14, 2006, the Board of Directors of Natrol, Inc. (the “Company”) appointed Mr. Wayne Bos as a Director of the Company and appointed him Chief Executive Officer Designate and President Designate. In connection with his appointment, Mr. Bos was awarded fully vested options to purchase 6,029,500 shares of the Company’s common stock with a strike price of $2.282 per share. The strike price was equal to the price of the last reported trade immediately prior to the time the Board determined to grant this option and therefore reflects the fair market value of our common stock at the time of the grant. For a period of three years, Mr. Bos’s ability to sell the majority of the shares he receives upon exercise of these options is restricted, with the restrictions lapsing based upon the stock price reaching defined hurdles. The grant is subject to shareholder approval. Should these shares be exercised and not subsequently sold, the concentration of our stock amongst our top five shareholders would increase. Continued Acceptance of Our Products. We strive to continually burnish the brand image of our products. Even so, negative events, negative publicity about supplements in particular or in general, and other factors could lead to a future lack of acceptance of our products. Such events or publicity may not be related directly to us. Even so such events or other factors could reduce demand for our products. Availability of Capital. Should we need to borrow, the cost of capital may be high. Traditional debt financing may be unavailable and we may have to seek alternative sources of financing, including the issuance of new shares of stock or preferential stock that could dilute current shareholders. Risk of Litigation from Private Attorney Generals and Others. Advertising and labeling for dietary supplements and conventional foods are, in addition to the federal government, regulated by state, county and local authorities. Some states also permit these laws to be enforced by Private Attorney Generals. These Private Attorney Generals may seek relief for consumers, seek class action certifications, seek class wide damages and product recalls of products sold by us. In the ordinary course of business, we may be named as a defendant in these types of State Attorneys and Private Attorney General Actions along with other vitamin and supplement companies. Until the courts rule that laws have been violated, that the actions can proceed as Private Attorney General Class Actions and that the cognizable injury has occurred, we do not believe such actions will have any material impact on our operations. There can be no assurance that state, county or local regulatory authorities will not commence regulatory or legal proceedings, which could restrict the permissible scope of the our product claims or the ability to sell our products in the future. Internal Controls. In 2002, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The date by which companies with a market capitalization of less than $75.0 million must receive auditor attestation has been delayed until the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Even so, we have been preparing for attestation and in 2005, we spent approximately $300,000 with a consulting firm to document all of our processes as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to manage our business, comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, obtain required auditor attestation and provide reliable financial reporting could be impaired and our management and auditors may be precluded from certifying effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our business reputation and cause our 19 stock price to decline. While we believe our controls meet all required standards, in the future our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Our auditing firm may interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from the way we interpret them, then they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified or has a scope limitation. From time-to-time, in our ongoing effort to improve business and operational processes and our internal control over financial reporting, we or our auditors may determine that “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” (as such terms are defined under accounting standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board) exist or that our internal control over financial reporting may otherwise require improvement. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses could impair our ability to provide financial statements that can be relied upon. If this were to occur, our business reputation could be harmed and investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and reports, either of which could have a significant negative impact on our stock price. Industry Risks Industry trends. Our success is linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and a weakness in the VMS marketplace could have a material adverse effect on us. The total United States retail market for nutritional supplements is highly fragmented. Highly documented industry data is not readily available and, when available, it is generally historical in nature, reporting on periods 12 months or more in arrears. Information Resources, Inc. (IRI) tracks sales data within the food, drug, and mass-market channels of distribution. This tracking does not include Wal-Mart sales, which are a significant portion of this sector. Wal-Mart is one of our top 10 customers. Health food channel sales, which are not tracked by IRI, make up approximately 22% of our overall business and Prolab sales which, in 2005, made up approximately 20% of our overall business are not tracked by IRI. Even so, IRI is useful for tracking key parts of the mass-market business. For the 52-week period ending December 31, 2005, IRI reported that the general vitamin category saw sales fall 3% in 2005. IRI does not track sales at health stores, sales through the Internet, or sales to other types of retailers. The private label business has been a significant growth element within the VMS industry. The growth of private label sales impacts the sales of branded products such as those distributed by Natrol. Large mass-market retailers are to an ever-greater degree, emphasizing private label sales. As such, the growth of brands such as Natrol, Laci Le Beau, and Prolab within food, drug, and general mass-market merchants is highly competitive and uncertain. In addition to the trends in the nutraceutical industry, the United States economy has experienced significant fluctuations over the last few years, in part due to uncertainty over foreign events, terrorists’ activities, the war in Iraq, unemployment and job creation in the United States and swings in overall consumer confidence. A sluggish economy inevitably impacts Natrol as well as the entire vitamin, mineral and supplement sector. Competition. The dietary supplement industry is highly competitive and we face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and that possess greater resources than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to maintain sufficient market share to achieve and sustain profitability. Numerous companies, many of which are larger in size and possess greater financial, personnel, distribution and other resources, compete with us in the development, manufacture and marketing of dietary supplements. Our principal competition in the health food store distribution channel comes from a limited number of large nationally known manufacturers and many smaller manufacturers of dietary supplements. Some of these companies focus exclusively in the health food channel of trade and have more salespeople than we do, and, as a result, have developed very strong relationships in this single channel of trade. In the mass-market distribution channel, our principal competition comes from broadline 20 manufacturers, major private label manufacturers and other companies. In addition, large pharmaceutical companies compete with us and others in the dietary supplement industry. Packaged food and beverage companies compete on a limited basis in the dietary supplement market. Increased competition from such companies could have a material adverse effect on us because such companies have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities far greater than we possess. We also face competition in both the health food store and mass-market distribution channels from private label dietary supplements and multivitamins offered by health and natural food store chains, drugstore chains, mass merchandisers and supermarket chains. Private label brands at mass-market chains represent substantial sources of income for these merchants and the mass-market merchants often support their own labels at the expense of other brands. Effect of Unfavorable Publicity. Our reputation and the reputation of the industry are extremely important to developing and maintaining the confidence of consumers. We believe that if consumers perceive the industry is not producing products to a high standard or that VMS products are not as efficacious as they should be, then our sales and those of the industry will be damaged. For these reasons, we also believe that the dietary supplement market is significantly affected by national media attention regarding the consumption of dietary supplements. Future scientific research or publicity may not be favorable to the dietary supplement industry or to any particular product or ingredient and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. Because of our dependence on consumers’ perceptions, adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the consumption of VMS products or ingredients or any similar products distributed by other companies and future reports of research that are perceived as less favorable or that question earlier research could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful or questioning their efficacy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of whether such reports are scientifically supported or whether the claimed harmful effects would be present at the dosages recommended for such products. There is no guarantee that unfavorable publicity will not have a similar negative effect on other products in the future. This may be the case regardless of whether or not the negative publicity is warranted to any degree. Government Regulation. Ours is a very highly regulated industry. Changes in regulations could be harmful to our long-term growth and lawsuits could arise over the interpretation of the many rules and regulations we must follow. We have regulations surrounding almost every part of our business from how we manufacture product to how we package goods and label, advertise, promote and distribute products. We are subject to regulation by, among other regulatory entities, the CPSC, the USDA, the EPA and the FDA. Advertising and other forms of promotion and methods of marketing of our products are subject to regulation primarily by the FTC which regulates these activities under the FTCA. The manufacture, labeling and advertising of our products are also regulated by various state and local agencies as well as those of each foreign country to which we distribute. Our products are generally regulated as dietary supplements under the FFDC Act, and are, therefore, not subject to pre-market approval by the FDA. However, these products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA relating to adulteration and misbranding. For instance, we are responsible for ensuring that all dietary ingredients in a supplement are safe, and must notify the FDA in advance of putting a product containing a new dietary ingredient (i.e., an ingredient not marketed for use as a supplement before October 15, 1994) on the market and furnish adequate information to provide reasonable assurance of the ingredient’s safety. Furthermore, if we make statements about the supplement’s effects on the structure or function of the body, we must, among other things, have 21 substantiation that the statements are truthful and not misleading. In addition, our product labels must bear proper ingredient and nutritional labeling and our supplements must be manufactured in accordance with current GMPs for foods. The FDA has issued an advanced notice of its intention to promulgate new GMPs which, when finally adopted may be more expensive to follow than prior GMPs. A product can be removed from the market if it is shown to pose a significant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury. Moreover, if the FDA determines that the “intended use” of any of our products is for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease, the product would meet the definition of a drug and could not be sold as a dietary supplement without a modification of its “intended use” claims. Failure to comply with applicable FDA regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines and criminal prosecutions. Our advertising is subject to regulation by the FTC under the FTCA. Section 5 of the FTCA prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. Section 12 of the FTCA provides that the dissemination or the causing to be disseminated of any false advertisement pertaining to, among other things, drugs or foods, which includes dietary supplements, is an unfair or deceptive act or practice. Under the FTC’s “substantiation doctrine,” an advertiser is required to have a “reasonable basis” for all product claims at the time the claims are first used in advertising or other promotions. Failure to adequately substantiate claims may be considered either as a deceptive or unfair practice. Pursuant to this FTC requirement, we are required to have adequate substantiation for all advertising claims. The type of substantiation will be dependent upon the product claims made. For example, a health claim normally would require competent and reliable scientific evidence, while a taste claim would require only survey evidence. In recent years the FTC has initiated numerous investigations of dietary supplement and weight loss products and companies. On November 18, 1998, the FTC issued “Dietary Supplements: An Advertising Guide for Industry.” This guide provides marketers of dietary supplements with guidelines on applying FTC law to dietary supplement advertising. It includes examples of the principles that should be used when interpreting and substantiating dietary supplement advertising. Although the guide provides additional explanation, it does not substantively change the FTC’s existing policy that all supplement marketers have an obligation to ensure that claims are presented truthfully and to verify the adequacy of the support behind such claims. Our internal staff, in conjunction with outside counsel, reviews advertising claims. We are not currently a party to any investigation, consent order or other decree of the FTC. We may be subject to investigation by the FTC in the future. If the FTC has reason to believe the law is being violated (e.g., we do not possess adequate substantiation for product claims), it can initiate enforcement action. The FTC has a variety of processes and remedies available to it for enforcement, both administratively and judicially, including compulsory process authority, cease and desist orders and injunctions. FTC enforcement could result in orders requiring, among other things, limits on advertising, consumer redress, divestiture of assets, rescission of contracts and such other relief as may be deemed necessary. Violation of such orders could result in substantial financial or other penalties. Any such action by the FTC could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products. We manufacture certain products pursuant to contracts with customers who distribute the products under their own or other trademarks. Such private label customers are subject to government regulations in connection with their purchase, marketing, distribution and sale of such products, and we are subject to government regulations in connection with the manufacture, packaging and labeling of such products. However, our private label customers are independent companies, and their labeling, marketing and distribution of such products is beyond our control. The failure of these customers to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Governmental regulations in foreign countries where we plan to begin or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into the market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of certain products. Compliance with such foreign governmental regulations is generally the responsibility of our distributors in those countries. These distributors are independent contractors over whom we have limited control. We may be subject to additional laws or regulations by the FDA or other federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal of laws or regulations, which we consider favorable, such as DSHEA, or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations, from time to time in the future. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products that cannot be reformulated, imposition of additional record keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, or expanded or different labeling or scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. General Business Risk: Risk Associated with National Trends. We sell our products nationally in several channels of distribution. As such, we are not immune from trends in the national economy. Negative employment or other economic trends directly affects the average consumer’s purchasing ability which in turn can affect our sales. Uncertainty due to the world events such as the war in the Middle East can affect the general willingness of consumers to spend on any item, including our products, that the consumer may feel is not essential. National economic trends affect our customers. Should any one of our national customers fail due to national trends, their failure could have a direct impact on the success of the our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 