ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us, or that we do not currently believe are important to an investor, may also harm our business operations. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could seriously be harmed. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to SubscribeNet The market for SubscribeNet is not fully developed and remains volatile. If the market for our service does not fully develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for third-party digital asset delivery and management services is relatively unproven, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies, large and small, to increase their use of on-demand digital delivery services. If companies do not increase their use of third-party digital asset delivery and management services, our operating results will suffer. In addition, in this unproven market, we have limited insight into trends that may develop and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant 10 business trends, which could harm our business. Ultimately, and particularly as the number of enterprise software companies decreases, the size of this market may be limited. We market SubscribeNet principally to technology companies. However, many software companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in developing their own electronic software and/or license delivery systems and therefore may be unwilling to migrate to and pay for an outsourced service. In addition, some software companies have adopted automatic update technology for delivering software updates, whereby an end-user's computer automatically contacts the software company's server to check whether updates are available and, if applicable, downloads and installs these updates. While SubscribeNet supports such an approach, this method for delivering software updates could be viewed by our potential and existing customers as an alternative to our digital delivery technology, and therefore any increased adoption of this automatic update technology could hurt our business and results of operations. Further, some companies may be reluctant to use our SubscribeNet delivery services because they are concerned about the security capabilities of these services. Competition from other electronic delivery and licensing providers, and potential customer development of in-house electronic delivery and/or licensing systems, could limit our revenue growth and reduce our gross margins. The market for selling electronic delivery and licensing services is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, broader product and service offerings, better name recognition, and a larger installed base of customers than we do. Some of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our potential customers and with third party information technology or consulting firms that help market our competitors' services. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand and improve their service offerings and new competitors enter the market. In addition, our current and potential customers are primarily information technology companies with strong software development expertise. When considering their alternatives for implementing a system for electronic delivery of software or license keys, these companies sometimes elect to develop such systems in-house. While we believe our competitive position is strong against both external competitors and in-house development, we have at times experienced reduced prices, reduced gross margins and lost sales as a result of such competitive factors. Such competition is likely to intensify, which could limit the growth of our revenues and gross margins. The loss of one or more of our key customers could cause our revenue growth to slow or cause our revenues to decline. A substantial portion of our revenues from SubscribeNet comes from a relatively small number of customers. Our contracts with most of these customers are subject to renewal or cancellation annually. If these customers elect to cancel their agreements with us, or are acquired by companies that do not wish to use our services, and we are unable to attract new customers generating similar revenue from SubscribeNet, our revenue growth would likely slow and our revenues could decline. Mergers and acquisitions in the technology sector could harm us by causing cancellation of customer contracts where our customers are acquired, or by strengthening our competitors. In recent years, there has been an increase in mergers and acquisitions among technology companies and this trend poses a risk for us. Since our customers are technology companies, any acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those customers by the acquiring companies. In addition, since our competitors are also technology companies, any acquisitions of other companies by our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by other companies, are likely to result in larger and stronger companies competing against us. Either of these types of events could reduce our revenue through loss of existing customers, or reduce our margins through increased price competition. Our current strategy includes the use of strategic marketing relationships, which may prove unsuccessful. We currently have marketing relationships in place with Digital River and On Demand Delivery, Inc. dba Nexstra. In addition, we have marketing relationships with vendors who are members of our Preferred Rights 11 Management Partner Program and reseller relationships with Akamai and Aspera under which we resell their services to our SubscribeNet customers. If our marketing relationships fail to produce significant revenue our business could suffer. A deterioration or termination of our reseller relationship with Akamai could harm our business since a portion of our customer base relies on the Akamai service today. Alternatively, if our strategic marketing relationships choose to offer a competing service to SubscribeNet, our business could suffer. Although our subscription-based sales model for SubscribeNet limits the volatility of our online services and technology revenue, other factors may cause our operating results, and therefore our stock price, to fluctuate. Our SubscribeNet fees, which comprised all of our revenue, are recognized ratably over contract terms of generally one year, thereby limiting the quarter-to-quarter volatility of those revenues. Nevertheless, certain factors may cause our revenue to fluctuate. In addition to the other risk factors described in this section, factors that could cause such fluctuation include: An increasing percentage of our revenues are based upon variable fee provisions in our agreements. Those variable revenues fluctuate based on the degree to which customers are using SubscribeNet, which is difficult to predict in advance; Deferral of SubscribeNet revenue recognition due to: delays by customers in implementing SubscribeNet; new sales involving extensive implementations; or contract modifications adding significant future deliverables; Unexpected increases in customer cancellations, which could result from service deficiencies, or from external conditions or circumstances beyond our control; Lengthening of the sales cycle for SubscribeNet due to macroeconomic or other factors; and Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our financial statements or unaudited interim financial statements. Consequently, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. The technological and functional requirements we must meet to stay competitive are subject to rapid change. If we are unable to quickly adapt to these changes and meet the demands of our current and potential customers, we will likely lose sales and market share and our revenue growth will be limited. We market primarily to enterprise technology companies who generally demand that a service like ours meet high technological and functional standards. To remain competitive in this market and meet the demands of current and prospective customers, we must continually adapt and upgrade our technology and functionality, including through investments in additional functionality. In addition, we are developing new functionality to reach new markets outside of the enterprise software industry, which are similarly competitive and demanding. We are a small company with limited resources available for enhancing and expanding our services. If we do not respond quickly enough to changing industry standards or the increased demands of customers and potential customers, we will likely lose sales and market share to competitors and our growth prospects will be limited. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changing standards and demands. If we incur such costs and our sales fail to increase commensurately, we may not be able to achieve sustained profitability and positive operating cash flow. 12 Defects in our SubscribeNet service could diminish demand for the service and subject us to substantial liability. Our SubscribeNet service is complex and may have errors or defects that users identify after implementation, which could harm our reputation and our business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite taking precautions to avoid errors, we have found defects in SubscribeNet from time to time, and we may find new errors in the future. Because our customers use SubscribeNet for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects or other performance problems could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew their agreements with us, could be eligible for credits under our service level agreements, and could delay or withhold payment to us. We also could lose future sales, or customers may make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and revenue reserve, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or the expense and risk of litigation. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party web hosting facilities, or in our relationships with third party hardware and software vendors, could impair the delivery of SubscribeNet and harm our business. We provide SubscribeNet through computer hardware that is currently located in third-party web hosting facilities in Santa Clara, California and a backup data center in Sacramento, California and in various locations that are used to support the Akamai network. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. While physical security measures are in place, they are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at the facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility, could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, the failure by either facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. In addition, to a significant degree, we rely on various third-party software applications and hardware to deliver our service. If we experience disruptions in those vendor relationships and those software and hardware components become unavailable to us, or unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, our service could be interrupted and/or damaged, causing harm to our customer relationships, our reputation, and our overall business. Viruses may hinder acceptance of internet-based digital delivery, which could in turn limit our revenue growth. The proliferation of software viruses is a key risk that could inhibit acceptance by information technology professionals of web-based delivery of digital goods. Any well-publicized transmission of a computer virus by us or another company using digital delivery could deter information technology professionals from using, and deter software providers from outsourcing, digital delivery, thereby adversely affecting our business. SubscribeNet enables our customers to upload their software products directly onto our systems for downloading by their end-users. Our systems automatically scan our customers' software products for known computer viruses on an ongoing basis while they are on our systems. However, it is possible that even with these periodic virus scans, our system could transmit a virus to one or more end-users. Any such virus transmission could result in disputes, litigation and negative publicity that could adversely affect our business and our stock price. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained of a customer's data, SubscribeNet may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service. Our SubscribeNet service involves the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to one of our customer's data, our reputation may be damaged, our business 13 may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Some companies may be reluctant to use SubscribeNet because they are concerned about our security capabilities. Additional government regulations may harm demand for our services and increase our costs of doing business. Our business has benefited from the tax laws of states in which purchases of software licenses are not taxable if the software is received only electronically. Some such states are considering whether to change their laws to broaden the taxability of transactions fulfilled over the internet. Any new imposition of taxes on sales of software licenses where the software is received electronically could substantially harm demand for our services and thereby materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also have benefited from implementing our services in Ireland, which can offer tax advantages to software companies distributing software from Ireland. Any regulatory change in Ireland or elsewhere that diminishes those advantages could harm our business. Other changes in government regulations, in areas such as privacy and export compliance, could also require us to implement changes in our services or operations that increase our cost of doing business and thereby hurt our financial performance. If our export compliance system fails to prevent unauthorized exports of our customers' software, we could be sanctioned by the U.S. government. Through SubscribeNet, we globally distribute software containing encryption technology and other technologies restricted by U.S. laws and regulations from exportation to certain countries, certain types of recipients, and certain specific end-users. Our SubscribeNet service incorporates automated procedures to help ensure that the software we deliver electronically is not downloaded in violation of U.S. export laws and regulations. However, these procedures may not prevent unauthorized exports of restricted software in every case. If an unauthorized export of software occurs through our SubscribeNet service and the U.S. government determines that we have violated U.S. export laws or regulations, we could be sanctioned under those laws or regulations. Sanctions include fines, suspension or revocation of export privileges, and imprisonment. Risks Related to zAthlete and Other New Business Ventures The market for our zAthlete social networking site is unproven. On October 16, 2007, we launched a beta version of our zAthlete social networking website. It leverages our knowledge in the management and distribution of digital content. We anticipate seeking to generate advertising and other revenues from the site in the future, but to date have not generated any appreciable revenues from the site. We do not have experience in developing or marketing social networking sites. Our continuing efforts could require significant resources, additional personnel and divert our attention from our other businesses. The size of the market for zAthlete or similar social networks is unclear and there is no assurance that we will achieve market share. In addition, to the extent that zAthlete raises privacy issues that are not fully addressed, our business and reputation could suffer. If our development, marketing and operation of zAthlete or other related products or services prove unsuccessful, we may not generate significant revenues, profits or even a return of our investment in the upcoming fiscal year, or ever, and our business could suffer. Failure to increase or maintain the number of users for our zAthlete social networking site could cause our business and financial results to suffer. The success of our zAthlete social networking services depends upon our ability to increase or maintain our base of users, because we plan to generate advertising or others revenues from our user base. Our ability to increase our base of users is dependent upon attracting these users to the zAthlete site. Failure to increase or maintain our base of users could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our ability to implement our strategies. 14 The market for our zAthlete social networking site is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our zAthlete social networking site is competitive, and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. While focused on athletics, zAthlete competes with a wide variety of social networking websites, including broader social networking websites such as MySpace and Facebook and a number of specialty websites, including Weplay, Takkle, YourSports and Hazzsports that offer similar online social networking services based on athletic communities. We also compete with a wide variety of websites that provide users with alternative networks and ways of locating and interacting with acquaintances from various affiliations, including web portals such as Yahoo!, MSN and AOL. As a result of the growth of the social networking market and minimal barriers to entry, a number of companies are attempting to enter this market, either directly with athletic offerings or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger user bases, significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, and engage in more extensive research and development than we do. Some of our competitors also have low user acquisition costs and offer a wider variety of services. If our competitors are more successful than we are in attracting users, our ability to maintain our user base will be adversely affected. Some of our social networking competitors have more compelling websites with more extensive user-generated content. If our zAthlete social networking services are not as compelling and we do not stay current with evolving consumer trends, we may not succeed in maintaining or increasing our membership base. Competition could have a material adverse affect on our potential for revenues from our zAthlete social networking service, both from advertising and any subscription or use revenues that we develop. More intense competition could also require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Our failure to achieve desired revenue models and pricing levels could impact our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. zAthlete is currently a free service. In the future, however, we intend to seek to generate advertising and subscription or use revenues from this site. However, we expect to experience significant pricing pressure for these services that we offer. Prices for internet advertising and services have decreased in recent years and may decline in the future. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions even with an increase in the number of our users, potential revenues from enhanced services, cost reductions, or otherwise. Increased price competition in this market could result in our inability to generate revenue from zAthlete and erosion of any revenues that we do ultimately generate, and could have a negative impact on our business. If we develop new products, services or technologies in the future, these innovations could disrupt our business and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we will evaluate new businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, the launch and development of zAthlete involves our entry into a new field. The development of new products and services entails a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: the risk of diverting the attention of our management and our employees from the day-to-day operations of the business; insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with research, development, operational and marketing activities; and risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. For example, in 2006 we launched Digital Fastball; however, we have not historically generated any appreciable revenues from Digital Fastball and we have discontinued further development of Digital Fastball at this 15 time. Future development of new products, services or technologies also could cause us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or cause us to issue equity securities. These actions could negatively impact the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders, our financial condition or our results of operations. Our efforts to enter new markets could prove unsuccessful. Conversely, we may be ill-equipped to handle growth rates that could result from entering new markets. We believe SubscribeNet also has broad applications beyond the enterprise technology industry, including the delivery and entitlement management of digital goods such as video, music, and digital content. We also believe demand for SubscribeNet exists in other geographies not marketed today. We are currently investing resources and developing services for certain of these markets and geographies. We also see opportunities for the delivery and management of music, game files and various forms of digital media. However, we have no significant experience selling into or serving these new markets, and it is possible our efforts to enter these markets will prove unsuccessful. Similarly, it is possible our efforts to develop our service to meet the needs of these new markets will not succeed. In either case, we may fail to generate revenue from these efforts, or even recover our marketing and development investments, in which case our business could suffer. By contrast, if we succeed in penetrating new markets, we could face another set of problems. We are staffed to support the growth rates we foresee in our traditional enterprise software market. It is possible that if we are effective in reaching new markets, we will be inadequately staffed to service both new and existing customers at the levels we have committed to provide. It also is possible we will be unable to increase our staffing quickly enough, or manage growth effectively enough, to maintain necessary service levels and/or to pursue new opportunities as they arise, in which case our business could suffer. General Risk Factors We have a history of losses and we have yet to achieve sustained profitability. We have incurred significant losses since we were formed in 1996, totaling approximately $162 million, and have yet to achieve sustained profitability. We cannot predict whether or when we will be able to achieve sustained profitability. We may raise additional capital to fund acquisitions, product development or general operations. Any such capital financing would dilute our stockholders' investments. We may raise additional capital in the future through private or public offerings of stock, or through other means. The purposes of any such financing would be to increase our cash reserves for potential use in acquiring other businesses, product development activities, funding our operations and generally strengthening our balance sheet. Any such additional financing would likely dilute the investments of our current stockholders and may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. A large percentage of our stock is owned by a small number of stockholders, which can lead to fluctuations and volatility in our stock price and insurmountable voting power. As of March 31, 2008, approximately 40% of our common stock, on an as-converted basis, was held by three investors. Those three investors are Digital River, Inc., Prescott Group Capital Management, L.L.C., and two affiliated funds, Special Situations Technology Fund, L.P. and Special Situations Technology II, L.P. Because the ownership of our stock is so concentrated, there is a high risk that a large sale of shares by any of those stockholders could cause a rapid decline in our stock price, in which case our other stockholders and the company itself could be harmed. In addition, the collective voting power of those stockholders is, as a practical matter, nearly sufficient to control the outcome of any matter put to a majority vote of the stockholders. 16 Our operating results could vary due to the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies, particularly SFAS 123(R). The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies significantly impact our results of operations. These methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. In particular, the calculation of share-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123(R), Share Based Payment, which we adopted as of the fiscal quarter beginning March 1, 2006, requires that we use valuation methodologies and a number of assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected terms, expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock and the exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn of additional information that may affect our previous estimates, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Over time, factors may arise that cause us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense. In addition, any future accounting pronouncements, taxation rules, and new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, could also have a significant effect on our reported results, including our reporting of transactions completed before the effective date of the change. Claims by third parties for intellectual property infringement could force us to stop selling our services, force us to pay royalties, or force us to indemnify our customers. Our business involves a high risk that we will be the target of intellectual property infringement claims. These claims could take a number of forms, including: Claims by other technology companies alleging that current or future components of our digital delivery service or related services infringe their intellectual property rights; Claims by our customers' competitors alleging that our customers' software, which we store and electronically deliver for our customers, infringes those competitors' intellectual property rights (our customers would typically be required to defend and indemnify us against such claims, but the claims could nevertheless disrupt our business); Claims that our use of the name "Intraware" violates the rights of other entities that are using the same name. We are aware that certain other companies are using the name "Intraware" as a company name or as a trademark or service mark. While we have received no notice of any claims of trademark infringement from any of those companies, we cannot assure you that these companies may not claim superior rights to "Intraware" or to other marks we use; or Claims by our customers that we delivered their software to unauthorized third parties, thereby infringing our customers' intellectual property rights. Industry consolidation is increasing the risk that we will become a target of the types of infringement claims described in the first two bullets above. Consolidation among companies providing digital delivery, licensing, e-commerce and related technologies is resulting in more direct competition among the surviving companies in that segment, heightening the risk of intellectual property infringement claims among those companies, including us. Similarly, consolidation in the enterprise software industry heightens the risk of intellectual property infringement claims among the companies remaining in that industry, including most of our customers. These intellectual property claims could be made for patent, copyright or trademark infringement or for misappropriation of trade secrets. They could be made directly against us, or indirectly through our contractual indemnification obligations to our customers and channel partners. Any claims could result in costly litigation and be time-consuming to defend, divert management's attention and resources, or cause delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be available only on onerous terms, if 17 at all. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover all potential claims or may not be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed. We believe we own the rights in, or have the rights required to use, our SubscribeNet technology. However, there can be no assurance that this technology does not infringe the rights of third parties. In addition, we take steps to verify that end-users who download our customers' software through our SubscribeNet service are entitled to deploy and use that software. However, there can be no assurance that this verification procedure will help us defend against claims by, or protect us against liability to, our customers whose software is downloaded. If our key personnel left our company, our product development, sales, and corporate management could suffer. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. We do not maintain life insurance on any of our officers or key employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our key employees, or if one or more of our executive officers or key employees decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, this could significantly harm our business. Financial and securities laws, especially the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, require that we evaluate our internal control structure. While we believe we currently have adequate internal controls in place, this exercise has no precedent available by which to measure the adequacy of our compliance, and in addition it may cause our operating expenses to increase. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and newly proposed or enacted rules and regulations of the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market impose new duties on us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firms. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such new rules and regulations, we have evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm will, in the future, need to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required in an effort to comply with the management certification and will undertake the evaluation and testing required for the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we are incurring additional expenses and diversion of management's time, and we may be required to hire additional personnel and engage additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services. Any of these developments could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income or increase our net loss. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of our testing and resulting remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is little precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market, and our reputation may be harmed. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the price of our common stock. Moreover, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal controls over our financial reporting will eliminate all risk of error or fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Our disclosure controls or procedures could be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the control. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Under the current rules, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to include management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our independent registered accounting firm to attest to our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending February 28, 2009. 18 If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, or enter into joint ventures, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or adversely affect our operating results. We may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, services and technologies in the future. Similarly, we may enter into joint ventures as we try to penetrate new markets. We are considerably smaller now than we were when we made our past acquisitions, and therefore any new acquisitions or investments could be more disruptive to our organization than in the past. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; risk of entering new markets; potential write-offs of acquired assets; potential loss of key employees; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; and delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Provisions of our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Our charter documents, as well as our Second Amended and Restated Preferred Stock Rights Agreement, contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include: Certain stockholder rights that are triggered in the event a person or entity acquires more than 15% of our voting securities (or up to 20% in the cases of Crosslink Capital, Inc. and Special Situations Technology Funds); The establishment of a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; The requirement of a super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; The authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock by our board to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; The prohibition of stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; The board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and 19 Advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. Section 203 imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 