Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our business and before investing in our publicly-traded securities. Any of the risks we describe below or elsewhere in this report could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, inflation, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Risks Related to our BusinessOur ability to profitably manage, operate and grow operations is critical to our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations and is subject to significant uncertainties and limitations. If we attempt to make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits.Our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations is dependent upon our ability to successfully operate and grow operations such that they generate positive cash flow. Our ability to start or acquire new businesses is significantly constrained by our limited liquidity and our likely inability to obtain debt financing or to issue equity securities as a result of our current financial condition, as well as other uncertainties and risks. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully operate and grow operations or establish or acquire new business operations.If we pursue any new business opportunities, the process of establishing a new business or negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any new business or acquisition. We may not have, and may not be able to acquire or retain, personnel with experience in any new business we may establish or acquire. In addition, 2future acquisitions could result in contingent liabilities and/or impairment or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may not have access to financing on reasonable terms, or at all, that may be necessary for us to continue to operate or to acquire new businesses.We do not currently have in place any agreements or commitments for short-term financing nor any agreements or commitments for additional long-term financing. In light of these factors and current market conditions, and our lack of significant unencumbered assets, we may not be able to secure additional financing for existing or new operations or for any acquisition. Various legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and liquidity.In the course of our business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In addition, we have become subject to various securities and derivative lawsuits, and we may continue to be subject to additional litigation, in some cases on the basis of novel legal theories. The resolution of these legal matters or other legal matters could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities and to estimate fair values could further adversely affect our financial position.The actual experience will differ from the assumptions that we used to determine the fair value of these securities. Material differences may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.The value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities will further decline as the underlying mortgage loan collateral declines.There are many factors that affect the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities, many of which are beyond our control. In general, the nature of mortgage securities is that as the underlying mortgage loan collateral is repaid or defaults, the value of, and cash flows from, our securities will decline. Risks Related to Our Operating SubsidiariesA decline in the number of home sales and the originations and refinancings of home loans would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of StreetLinks.StreetLinks, our residential appraisal management company, retains a portion of the fee for appraisal services collected from lenders and borrowers for an independent residential appraisal to cover its costs of managing the process of fulfilling the appraisal order. A decline in the number of home sales and the originations and refinancings of home loans would cause a decrease in the demand for appraisals. A decreased demand for appraisals would have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of StreetLinks. Generally, these decreases would be caused by factors beyond our control, such as increases in interest rates for residential mortgage loans. Such an increase in applicable interest rates may be caused by market forces, a change in government policy, or a change in policy by the Federal Reserve Bank, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.StreetLinks may be unable to maintain its relationships with its existing lending customers and may be unable to add new lending customers which would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of StreetLinks.StreetLinks has increased its appraisal order volume by adding lending customers and intends to further develop its business through the addition of new lending customers. There is no assurance that StreetLinks will be able to maintain the relationships with its existing lending customers, including three customers that comprised approximately 31% of StreetLinks' service fee revenues during the years ended December 31, 2012, or add new lending customers which would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of StreetLinks.Government agencies and regulatory authorities may change or eliminate current restrictions and requirements for appraisals. StreetLinks' appraisal order volume has increased, in part, as a result of increased restrictions and requirements for appraisals established by government agencies and regulatory authorities such as the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development that, among other things, require appraiser independence. Changes in, or elimination of, these restrictions and requirements could adversely affect the demand for StreetLinks' services and the viability of its business model. Advent may be unable to develop systems and a network of business partners to successfully distribute its products and services. The success of Advent in large part depends on its ability to develop systems and maintain its network of business partners for the distribution of its products and services. Advent's business depends on a limited number of business partners and the loss of any significant business partner may adversely affect the business. For example, Advent finances its operations through a 3lending facility with one bank. If that bank ceased financing Advent's operations, then Advent would be unable to operate its business until alternative arrangements could be made. Moreover, part of Advent's method of distributing its products and services is to integrate its offerings with tax preparation software created by a limited number of third party developers. If any third party developers ceased integrating Advent's products and services into the tax preparation software, then Advent's ability to maintain its business would be impaired. To the extent Advent is unable to develop systems and maintain its network of business partners to successfully distribute Advent's products and services, it will have an adverse effect on Advent's business, financial condition and results of operations. Advent's ability to distribute its financial products is, to some extent, dependent on the success of its business partners. Advent distributes its financial products through business partners such as tax return preparation offices and is to some extent dependent on the success of these business partners. To the extent there is a decrease in the demand for the products or services of Advent's business partners, there may be a decrease in demand for Advent's products and services, which would have an adverse effect on Advent's business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in regulation of Advent's business may impact results. Advent's facilitation of bank card and other financial products and services is done in a financial industry that has faced, and may continue to face, increased levels of regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking. New or revised regulations or enforcement perspectives may adversely affect Advent's ability to effectively design, distribute and facilitate its products and services, and may adversely affect Advent's sales channels (e.g., tax return preparation businesses) and funding sources.Legal proceedings against our operating subsidiaries could adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of their business, our operating subsidiaries may become subject to legal proceedings and claims and could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs that would have an adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Discontinued OperationsWe may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could further harm our liquidity.When we sold mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we made customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower, broker, or employee fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. We have received various repurchase demands as performance of subprime mortgage loans has deteriorated. A majority of repurchase requests have been denied, otherwise a negotiated purchase price adjustment was agreed upon with the purchaser. Enforcement of repurchase obligations against us would further harm our liquidity. Risks Related to our Capital Stock There can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to be traded in an active market.Our common stock is currently quoted by the OTC Markets' Group inter-dealer quotation service as an OTCQB security. Trading of securities on this quotation service is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on exchanges, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase our stock will find that the liquidity or transferability of the stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our stock. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and the ability of an investor to transfer their shares of our common stock may be limited. We are not likely to pay dividends to our common shareholders in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. Under the restrictions of our senior notes, no dividends can be paid on our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our capital stock can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our capital stock include:4•actual or perceived changes in our ability to continue as a going concern;•actual or anticipated changes in the delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans, in general, and specifically on the loans we invest in through our mortgage securities;•actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and cash flow;•general market and economic conditions, including the operations and stock performance of other industry participants;•the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions;•the activities of investors who engage in short sales of our common stock;•actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;•sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders;•additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and•actions by institutional shareholders. Our charter permits us to issue additional equity without shareholder approval, which could materially adversely affect our current shareholders. Our charter permits our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to:•authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without shareholder approval, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over our outstanding common stock with respect to voting;•classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares; and•issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock in exchange for outstanding securities, with the consent of the holders of those securities. Other Risks Related to our BusinessOur ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could be severely limited in the event of certain transfers of our voting securities.We currently have recorded a significant deferred tax asset, before valuation allowance, almost all of which relates to certain net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in-losses. While we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to utilize at least a portion of such losses in the future, the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could provide significant future tax savings to us if we are able to fully utilize such losses. However, our ability to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted or eliminated due to a future “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change could occur that would severely limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses, which may result in higher taxable income for us (and a significantly higher tax cost as compared to the situation where these tax benefits are preserved). Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing the senior notes we issued on March 22, 2011 (the “Senior Notes”) contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations, capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Without the prior consent of the holders of our Senior Notes, the terms of our Senior Notes and the related indentures restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: •incur indebtedness;•create certain liens;•make payments from our subsidiaries to us;•make payments to our shareholders;•acquire our outstanding shares, or the shares of our subsidiaries;•make payments on debt securities pari passu or junior to the Senior Notes; and•merge, consolidate, transfer and/or sell substantially all of our assets.There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive the consent of the persons holding the Senior Notes should we have a need to take one of the restricted actions, which such limitation may hinder our ability to operate or grow our business in the future. The interest rate on our Senior Notes will increase.The Senior Notes accrue interest at a rate of 1% until the earlier of (a) the completion of an equity offering that results in proceeds of $40 million or more or (b) January 1, 2016. Thereafter, the Senior Notes will accrue interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 3.5%. The aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes is $85.9 million. The three-month LIBOR rate is at a historically low level and may increase in the future. Without accounting for increases in LIBOR, the increase in the applicable 5interest rate on the Senior Notes from 1% to 3.5% will negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Some provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law and our current Rights Plan may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices.Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws, Maryland law, and our current Rights Plan could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance notice procedures. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. Finally, we have a Rights Plan to protect our net operating loss carryforwards by preventing any shareholder from becoming a 5% shareholder, which may constitute a change in control of the Company. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, asset impairment, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by management could significantly change our reported results. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and other rules and regulations promulgated thereunder could cause additional operating and compliance costs in addition to other uncertainties. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into federal law. The Dodd-Frank Act has had and will continue to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Regulatory agencies will implement new regulations in the future that will establish the parameters of the new regulatory framework and provide a clearer understanding of the legislation's effect on our business. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our operations is unclear. Nonetheless, while it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and certain yet-to-be implemented rules and regulations will have on us, we expect that at a minimum our operating and compliance costs will increase.The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and proposed amendments thereto could cause our compensation costs to increase, adversely affecting our results and cash flows. The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions that could materially impact the future healthcare costs of the Company. The legislation will continue to become effective through a phased approach that will not conclude until 2018, thus the ultimate impact of the new legislation remains uncertain, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our compensation costs which would adversely affect our results and cash flows. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business.We are heavily dependent upon certain key personnel and the loss of service of any of these senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the Company's ability to retain these key executives. The loss of any of these senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional qualified senior management personnel.System interruptions or other technology failures could impair the Company's operations.We rely on our computer systems and service providers to consistently provide efficient and reliable service. System interruptions or other system intrusions, which may not be within the Company's control, may impair the Company's delivery of its products and services, resulting in a loss of customers and a corresponding loss in revenue.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.6