Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our business and before investing in our publicly traded securities. Any of the risks we describe below or elsewhere in this report could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, inflation, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Risks Related to Recent Changes in Our Business The subprime loan market has largely ceased to operate, which has adversely affected our business and may adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to a number of market factors, including increased delinquencies and defaults on residential mortgage loans, investor concerns over asset quality, a weakening of the United States housing market and the failure of certain subprime mortgage companies and hedge funds that have invested in subprime loans, there has been extreme uncertainty and disruption in the subprime mortgage industry as a whole. As a result, our business has been materially and adversely affected in a number of ways. Due to the fact that the 7 Table of Contents secondary market for mortgage loans has effectively been unavailable to us since the middle of 2007, we have discontinued our mortgage lending business and have sold, at a loss, most of the loans that we originated during 2007 and had not previously securitized. Further, we have sold our mortgage servicing assets to generate cash to repay existing indebtedness and to reduce cash requirements. We have also terminated a substantial portion of our workforce. All of these events have had a material adverse effect on our business and have forced us to change business strategies. Our business now is focused solely on managing our portfolio of mortgage securities. If the subprime market fails to significantly improve, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and business prospects will be further adversely affected and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Further, because of state licensing requirements, we are unlikely to be able, ourselves, to recommence mortgage lending activities so long as we continue to have a shareholders’ deficit. As a result of this and other factors, in the event that the subprime market recovers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate in the manner or at the levels that we have historically. Payments on our mortgage securities are currently our only source of cash flows and will decrease in the next several months. Absent the reestablishment of profitable operations and reduction of our expenses from discontinued operations and other obligations, our cash flows will not be sufficient for us to continue as a going concern. Our residual and subordinated mortgage securities are currently our only source of cash flows. Based on the current projections, the cash flows from our mortgage securities will decrease in the next several months as the underlying mortgage loans are repaid, and could be significantly less than the current projections if losses on the underlying mortgage loans exceed the current assumptions. In addition, we have significant operating expenses associated with office leases, software contracts, and other obligations relating to our discontinued operations, as well as payment obligations with respect to secured and unsecured debt, including periodic interest payments with respect to junior subordinated debentures relating to the trust preferred securities of NovaStar Capital Trust I and NovaStar Capital Trust II. We intend to use available cash inflows in excess of our immediate operating needs, including debt service payments, to repay all of Wachovia’s short-term borrowings and any remaining fees due under the repurchase agreements at the earliest practical date. Any new advances under our financing facilities are at Wachovia’s sole discretion and we do not expect any such advances to be made. If, as the cash flows from mortgage securities decrease, we are unable to recommence or invest in mortgage loan origination or brokerage business on a profitable basis, and restructure our unsecured debt and contractual obligations or if the cash flows from our mortgage securities are less than currently anticipated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern and avoid seeking the protection of applicable federal and state bankruptcy laws. To the extent that the mortgage loans underlying our residual and subordinated securities continue to experience significant credit losses, our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected. Our mortgage securities consist of certain residual securities retained from our past securitizations of mortgage loans, which typically consist of interest-only, prepayment penalty, and over collateralization bonds, and certain investment grade and non-investment grade rated subordinated mortgage securities retained from our past securitizations and purchased from other ABS issuers. These residual and subordinated securities are generally unrated or rated below investment grade and, as such, involve significant investment risk that exceeds the aggregate risk of the full pool of securitized loans. By holding the residual and subordinated securities, we generally retain the “first loss” risk associated with the underlying pool of mortgage loans. As a result, losses on the underlying mortgage loans directly affect our returns on, and cash flows from, these mortgage securities. In addition, if delinquencies and/or losses on the underlying mortgage loans exceed specified levels, the level of over-collateralization required for higher rated securities held by third parties may be increased, further decreasing cash flows presently payable to us. Increased delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying our residual and subordinated mortgage securities have resulted in a decrease in the cash flow we receive from these investments. To the extent we continue to experience significant realized losses and decreased cash flows from these assets, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected. In addition, because we have financed our mortgage securities under short-term warehouse repurchase agreements, continued decreases in the value of these retained securities may result in additional margin calls, which will further undermine our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. 8 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will have access to financing necessary to support our business and assets. Further, if we are unable to remain in compliance with agreements governing our indebtedness or to obtain waivers of any noncompliance, we will not be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred significant debt to finance our past operations, including the origination and purchase of mortgage loans and the purchase of mortgage securities. A significant amount of our indebtedness is represented by multiple secured financing facilities with Wachovia and the junior subordinated debentures related to the trust preferred securities of NovaStar Capital Trust I and NovaStar Capital Trust II. We currently intend to use available cash inflows in excess of our immediate operating needs, including debt service payments, to repay all of Wachovia’s outstanding borrowings and any remaining fees due under the repurchase agreements at the earliest practical date. During and after this period of repayment, any new advances under the Wachovia lending facilities are at Wachovia’s sole discretion and we do not expect any such advances to be made. As of December 31, 2007 and thereafter, we are out of compliance with the net worth and liquidity covenants in our financing agreements with Wachovia. While Wachovia has waived this non compliance through April 30, 2008, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain further waivers of, or amendments to, our financing facilities if we were to breach any representation, warranty or covenant contained in such financing facilities or waiver or amendment. In addition, we project that we will be out of compliance with our current waiver prior to its expiration of April 30, 2008. Any default under our secured financing facilities and failure to obtain any necessary waivers or amendments in the future could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness under these facilities and the liquidation by the lender of the related collateral. Any acceleration of indebtedness would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern and any liquidation of our collateral could be at a substantial loss. Our wholly owned subsidiary NovaStar Mortgage, Inc. has outstanding junior subordinated debentures related to the outstanding trust preferred securities of NovaStar Capital Trust I and NovaStar Capital Trust II. We have guaranteed NovaStar Mortgage’s obligations under these debentures, including NovaStar Mortgage’s obligations to make periodic interest payments thereon. Our financing facilities with Wachovia prohibit us from making any such payments without Wachovia’s consent in the event that we have less than $30 million of available liquidity. In the event that any such payments are not made when due, whether as a result of the restrictions in our financing agreements with Wachovia or otherwise, or we or NovaStar Mortgage otherwise breach any of our obligations relating to the debentures or trust preferred securities and fail to remedy the default within the applicable cure period, if any, all of our obligations with respect thereto, including the repayment of principal, may be accelerated and declared to be immediately due and payable, in which case we would be forced to seek the protection of applicable federal and state bankruptcy laws. In light of current market conditions, our current financial condition, and our lack of significant unencumbered assets, no assurance can be given regarding our ability to meet our debt service obligations or to secure additional financing. To the extent we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or do not have access to adequate financing, our business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern will be negatively affected. There is no assurance that we will continue to have access to financing at levels necessary for operations or other liquidity needs or that we will not be forced to file for bankruptcy. Various legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations, liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. In the course of our business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. See Part I “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” The resolution of these legal matters or other legal matters could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) has requested information from issuers in our industry, including us, regarding accounting for mortgage loans and other mortgage related assets. In addition, we have received requests or subpoenas for information relating to our operations from various federal and state regulators and law enforcement, including, without limitation, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the United States Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the New York Attorney General and the Department of Labor. While we have provided, or are in the process of providing, the requested information to the applicable officials, we may be subject to further information requests from, or action by, these or other regulators or law enforcement officials. To the extent we are subject to any actions, our financial condition, liquidity, and ability to continue a going concern could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our common stock or Series C Preferred Stock will continue to be traded in an active market. Our common stock and our 8.90% Series C Preferred Stock were delisted by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in January 2008, as a result of failure to meet applicable standards for continued listing on the NYSE. Our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and on the Pink Sheets. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be maintained. Trading of securities on the OTC and Pink Sheets is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on exchanges, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase our stock will find that the 9 Table of Contents liquidity or transferability of the stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our stock. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common and preferred stock could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your shares of our common and preferred stock may be limited. We are not likely to pay dividends to our common or preferred stockholders in the near future. We are not required to pay out our taxable income in the form of dividends, as we are no longer subject to a REIT distribution requirement. Instead, payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. To preserve liquidity and to remain in compliance with our financing facilities, our board of directors has suspended dividend payments on our Series C and Series D-1 Preferred Stock. Dividends on our Series C and D-1 Preferred Stock continue to accrue and the dividend rate on our Series D-1 Preferred Stock increased from 9.0% to 13.0%, compounded quarterly, effective January 16, 2008 with respect to all unpaid dividends and subsequently accruing dividends. No dividends can be paid on any of our common stock until all accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series C and Series D-1 Preferred Stock are paid in full. Accumulating dividends with respect to our preferred stock will negatively affect the ability of our common stockholders to receive any distribution or other value upon liquidation. Risks Related to Mortgage Asset Financing, Sale, and Investment Activities We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could further harm our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. When we sold mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we made customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. If a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover losses from the originating broker or correspondent. Repurchased loans are typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance and, prior to sale, cannot currently be financed by us. As a result, significant repurchase activity would further harm our liquidity, cash flow, and financial condition. During 2007, we received an increased number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers of whole loans as a result of, among other things, borrower fraud, which had a negative impact on our liquidity and results of operations. In the event that we experience further repurchase and indemnity demands, our liquidity, cash flow, and financial condition will be further harmed. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities and to estimate reserves could further adversely affect our financial position. Our securitizations of mortgage loans that were structured as sales for financial reporting purposes resulted in gain recognition at closing as well as the recording of the residual mortgage securities we retained at fair value. The value of residual securities represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the investors, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments and credit losses. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected discount rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Due to deteriorating market conditions, our actual experience has differed significantly from our assumptions, resulting in a reduction in the fair value of these securities and impairments on these securities. If our actual experience continues to differ materially from the assumptions that we used to determine the fair value of these securities, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue as a going concern will continue to be negatively affected. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Interest Rates and Our Hedging Strategies Changes in interest rates may harm our results of operations and equity value. Our results of operations are likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to our mortgage securities, mortgage loans, floating rate debt obligations, interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps. Interest rate changes could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects, and ability to continue as a going concern in the following ways: • interest rate fluctuations may harm our cash flow as the spread between the interest rates we pay on our borrowings and hedges and the interest rates we receive on our mortgage assets narrows; • the value of our residual and subordinated securities and the income we receive from them are based primarily on LIBOR, and an increase in LIBOR increases our funding costs which reduces the cash flow we receive from, and the value of, these securities; • existing borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages or higher risk loan products may incur higher monthly payments as the interest rate increases, and consequently may experience higher delinquency and default rates, resulting in decreased cash flows from, and decreased value of, our mortgage securities; and • mortgage prepayment rates vary depending on such factors as mortgage interest rates and market conditions, and changes in prepayment rates may harm our earnings and the value of our mortgage securities. In addition, interest rate changes may also further impact our net book value as our mortgage securities and related hedge derivatives are marked to market each quarter. Generally, as interest rates increase, the value of our mortgage securities decreases which decreases the book value of our equity. Furthermore, shifts in the yield curve, which represents the market’s expectations of future interest rates, also affects the yield required for the purchase of our mortgage securities and therefore their value. To the extent that there is an unexpected change in the yield curve it could have an adverse effect on our mortgage securities portfolio and our financial position and operations. Risks Related to Credit Losses Further delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans, particularly in the sub-prime sector, may cause us to recognize additional losses, which would further adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, financial condition, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. The residential mortgage market has encountered difficulties which have adversely affected our performance. Delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase, particularly in the sub-prime sector. In addition, in recent months residential property values in most states have declined, in some areas severely, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A sustained decline or a lack of increase in those values is likely to result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. Another factor that may have contributed to, and may in the future result in, higher delinquency rates is the increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, with respect to option ARM mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature which reach their negative amortization cap, borrowers may experience a substantial increase in their monthly payment even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates. Compounding this issue, the current lack of appreciation in residential property values and the adoption of tighter underwriting standards throughout the sub-prime mortgage loan industry may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to refinance these loans and avoid default, particularly borrowers facing a reset of the monthly payment to a higher amount. To the extent that delinquencies or losses continue to increase for these or other reasons, the value of our mortgage securities and the mortgage loans held in our portfolio will be further reduced, which will adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, cash flow, financial condition, business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern. Loans made to nonconforming mortgage borrowers entail relatively higher delinquency and default rates which will result in higher loan losses. Nonconforming mortgage borrowers have impaired or limited credit histories, limited documentation of income and higher debt-to-income ratios than traditional mortgage lenders allow. Mortgage loans made to nonconforming mortgage loan borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and foreclosure than mortgage loans made to borrowers with better credit and, therefore, will result in higher levels of realized losses than conventional loans. 11 Table of Contents Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan and costs of sale. In the event of a borrower’s bankruptcy, that borrower’s mortgage loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan may in some circumstances be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee under applicable state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Also, our cost of financing a delinquent or defaulted loan is higher than for a performing loan, and loans that are delinquent or in default may be unmarketable or saleable only at a discount. We have experienced an increase in borrower delinquencies and defaults, which has adversely affected our liquidity, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Nearly all of our remaining loans held for sale are delinquent or are in default. In addition, we continue to be exposed to delinquencies and losses with respect to loans that we have securitized, either through residual securities that we retain in securitizations structured as sales, or through the loans that remain on our balance sheet in securitizations structured as financings. To the extent that loan delinquencies and defaults continue at their current rates or become more severe, our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern may be further adversely affected. We face loss exposure due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, employees, mortgage brokers and other third parties. In our origination and purchasing of mortgage loans, we relied heavily upon information provided to us by third parties, including information relating to the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information was fraudulently or negligently misrepresented to us, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than we expected. Whether a misrepresentation was made by the loan applicant, the loan broker, one of our employees, or any other third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with it. A loan subject to misrepresentation typically cannot be sold and, if sold prior to our detection of the misrepresentation, generally must be repurchased by us. We may not be able to recover losses incurred as a result of the misrepresentation. As with the broader nonconforming mortgage loan industry, we have experienced an increase in exposure due to fraud, which has resulted in an increase in our repurchase and indemnity obligations and has adversely affected our cash flow, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In the event that we experience further repurchase and indemnity demands, our liquidity, cash flow, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected. The value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities may further decline due to factors beyond our control. There are many factors that affect the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the value of the homes collateralizing residential loans may decline due to a variety of reasons beyond our control, such as weak economic conditions or natural disasters, and a borrower’s ability to repay a loan may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as subsequent over-leveraging of the borrower, reductions in personal incomes, and increases in unemployment. Interest-only loans, negative amortization loans, adjustable-rate loans, reduced documentation loans, home equity lines of credit and second lien loans may involve higher than expected delinquencies and defaults. Changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws, and other laws may exacerbate loan losses. To the extent that these factors continue to negatively affect the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage assets our operating results, liquidity, cash flows, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected. Mortgage insurers may not pay claims resulting in increased credit losses. We use mortgage insurance to mitigate our risk of credit losses. We face the risk that our mortgage insurers might not have the financial ability to pay all claims presented by us or may deny a claim if the loan is not properly serviced, has been improperly originated, is the subject of fraud, or for other reasons. Any of those events could increase our credit losses and thus adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows, and ability to continue as a going concern. 12 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown or a decline in the real estate market could further harm our results of operations. A substantial portion of our mortgage assets consist of single-family mortgage loans or mortgage securities evidencing interests in single-family mortgage loans. Because substantially all of our loans were made to credit-impaired borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on these loans tend to be higher during economic slowdowns. We have experienced a significant increase in delinquencies and defaults, which has harmed and continues to harm our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and ability to continue as going concern. In addition, material declines in real estate values have weakened our collateral loan-to-value ratios, have increased the risk of default by decreasing the ability of borrowers to refinance loans they are unable to sustain or to sell the mortgage property to repay the loan, and have increased the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such cases, we are subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage assets arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Geographic concentration of mortgage loans increases our exposure to risks in those areas. Over-concentration in any one geographic area of our loans held for sale or underlying our mortgage securities increases our exposure to the economic risks associated with that area. Declines in the residential real estate markets in which we are concentrated, including California and Florida, have reduced the values of the properties collateralizing our mortgages which in turn has increased the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, or losses from those loans. In addition, increases in the unemployment rate in markets in which we are concentrated increases the likelihood that borrowers in those areas may become delinquent on their loans. To the extent that borrowers in a geographic area in which we have made a significant number of loans become delinquent or otherwise default on such loans, the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities will further decrease which will adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, cash flows, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. To the extent that we have a large number of loans in an area hit by a natural disaster, we may suffer losses. Standard homeowner insurance policies generally do not provide coverage for natural disasters, such as hurricanes and floods. Furthermore, nonconforming borrowers are not likely to have special hazard insurance. To the extent that borrowers do not have insurance coverage for natural disasters, they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. A natural disaster that results in a significant number of delinquencies could cause increased foreclosures and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters, and that in turn could negatively affect the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage assets, which will adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, cash flows, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our sale of our mortgage servicing rights, we no longer possess the ability to identify and address potential or actual delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying our residual and subordinated securities. We have traditionally utilized our role as servicer of our securitized pools of mortgage loans to attempt to identify and address potential and actual borrower delinquencies and defaults. On November 1, 2007, we sold to a third party our servicing rights with respect to our securitized loans. As a result, we no longer control the lender-borrower relationship, which may exacerbate the increase in delinquencies and defaults under such mortgage loans and the negative impact on the value and cash flows of our residual and subordinated securities resulting from such delinquencies and defaults. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment in Which We Operate We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment prohibition or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets, we could be required to repurchase these loans and may not be able to sell or liquidate the loans, which would negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to qualify for an exemption from regulation as an investment company could harm our business. The Investment Company Act does not regulate entities that are primarily engaged, directly or indirectly, in a business “other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities,” or that are primarily engaged in the business of “purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Under the SEC’s current interpretation, in order to qualify for the latter exemption we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in “qualifying real estate interests” and at least an additional 25% of our assets in other real estate-related assets or additional qualifying real estate interests. Mortgage-backed securities 13 Table of Contents that do not represent all the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and thus may not qualify as a qualifying real estate interest for the purposes of the 55% requirement. If we fail to qualify for an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act, we could not operate our business efficiently under the regulatory scheme imposed by the Investment Company Act. Accordingly, we could be required to restructure our activities which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to comply with federal, state or local regulation of, or licensing requirements with respect to, our business could harm our financial condition and ability to recommence mortgage banking operations. Our prior mortgage lending, brokerage and loan servicing operations were subject to an extensive body of federal, state and local laws and licensing requirements. Although we utilized systems and procedures designed to facilitate compliance, these requirements were voluminous and, in some cases, complex and subject to interpretation, and our compliance with these requirements depended on the actions of a large number of employees. Borrowers experiencing foreclosure and terminated employees may make retaliatory allegations of non-compliance. Investigations, enforcement actions, litigation, fines, penalties and liability with respect to non-compliance with these requirements may consume attention of key personnel, may adversely affect our ability to recommence mortgage lending, brokerage or servicing operations, and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock The market price and trading volume of our common and preferred stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our capital stock can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our capital stock include: • actual or perceived changes in our ability to continue as a going concern; • actual or anticipated changes in the delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans, in general, and specifically on the loans we invest in through our mortgage securities; • actual or anticipated changes in residential real estate values; • actual or anticipated changes in market interest rates; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and cash flow; • general market and economic conditions, including the operations and stock performance of our competitors; • developments in the subprime mortgage lending industry or the financial services sector generally; • the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions; • the activities of investors who engage in short sales of our common stock; • actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders; • additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and • actions by institutional shareholders. We may issue additional shares that may cause dilution and may depress the price of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to: • authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over our outstanding common stock with respect to voting; and • classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. 14 Table of Contents In the future, we may access the capital markets to raise additional funds by making additional offerings of securities, including debt instruments, preferred stock or common stock. Additional equity offerings by us may dilute your interest in us or reduce the market price of our capital stock, or both. Our outstanding shares of preferred stock have, and any additional series of preferred stock may also have, a preference on distribution payments that limit our ability to make a distribution to common shareholders. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Thus, our common shareholders will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest in us. Other Risks Related to our Business You should exercise caution in reviewing our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis of accounting which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets, liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. In light of these facts, you should exercise caution in reviewing our financial statements. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could be severely limited if transfer restrictions are not adopted or are not effective in preventing an ownership change from occurring. We currently have recorded a net deferred tax asset, before valuation allowance, of $368.3 million, almost all of which relates to certain loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in-losses. While we believe that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to utilize such losses in the future, the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could provide significant future tax savings to us if we are able to use such losses. However, our ability to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted or eliminated due to a future ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. Pursuant to Section 382 of the Code, a corporation is limited in its ability to use existing net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built in losses once that corporation experiences an “ownership change” (as that term is defined in the Code and IRS regulations). We have imposed certain transfer restrictions on our Series D-1 Preferred Stock, and have also agreed to submit an amendment to our Charter to our shareholders for approval, to limit the transferability of our common stock in order to attempt to preserve certain of our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses. Our shareholders may fail to approve this amendment. Further, although transfer restrictions are valid under the Maryland General Corporation Law, we are not aware of any published court decisions enforcing similar transfer restrictions. Thus, a transfer could occur that would violate the transfer restrictions, and we may be unable to enforce such transfer restrictions. Even if a court were to enforce the transfer restrictions, the Internal Revenue Service might not agree that the transfer restrictions provided a sufficient remedy with respect to an ownership change resulting from a prohibited transfer. Further, our Board of Directors has waived, and may in the future waive, application of the transfer restrictions to certain shareholders or transfers if determined to otherwise be in the interests of the Company. In any of these cases, despite the implementation of the transfer restrictions, an ownership change could occur that would severely limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses, which may result in higher taxable income for us (and a significantly higher tax cost as compared to the situation where these tax benefits are preserved). Our business could be adversely affected if we experienced an interruption in or breach of our communication or information systems or if we were unable to safeguard the security and privacy of the personal financial information we receive. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any material interruption, or breach in security, of our communication or information systems or the third-party systems on which we rely could negatively affect our business. Additionally, we have access to the personal financial information of borrowers which is highly sensitive and confidential, and subject to significant federal and state regulation. If a third party were to misappropriate this information or if we inadvertently disclosed this information, we potentially could be subject to both private and public legal actions. Our policies and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, may become noncompliant with existing federal or state laws or regulations governing privacy, or with those laws or regulations that may be adopted in the future. 15 Table of Contents Some provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices. The transfer restrictions applicable or proposed to be applicable to our capital stock are complex and are designed to preserve the value of our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses for the benefit of our stockholders. The transfer restrictions may make it more difficult to acquire a significant interest in us or to effect a business combination transaction that stockholders may perceive to be favorable. The transfer restrictions could also make it more difficult for a stockholder to replace current management because a stockholder’s ability to increase its voting power is limited. Certain additional provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance notice procedures. Finally, Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 