Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our business and before investing in our publicly traded securities. Any of the risks we describe below or elsewhere in this report could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, inflation, general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Risks Related to our Business Payment on our mortgage securities will continue to decrease as underlying mortgage loans are repaid and if the mortgage loans underlying our residual and subordinated securities continue to experience significant credit losses, which will reduce our cash flows, perhaps abruptly, and adversely affect our liquidity. Our mortgage securities consist of certain residual securities retained from our past securitizations of mortgage loans, which typically consist of interest-only, and over collateralization bonds, and certain investment grade and non-investment grade rated subordinated mortgage securities retained from our past securitizations and purchased from other ABS issuers. These residual and subordinated securities are generally unrated or rated below investment grade and, as such, involve significant investment risk that exceeds the aggregate risk of the full pool of securitized loans. By holding the residual and subordinated securities, we generally retain the “first loss” risk associated with the underlying pool of mortgage loans. As a result, losses on the underlying mortgage loans directly affect our returns on, and cash flows from, these mortgage securities. In addition, if delinquencies and/or losses on the underlying mortgage loans exceed specified levels, the level of over-collateralization required for higher rated securities held by third parties may be increased, further decreasing cash flows presently payable to us. 3 Increased delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying our residual and subordinated mortgage securities have resulted in a decrease in the cash flow we receive from these investments. In the event that decreases in cash flows from our mortgage securities are more severe or abrupt than currently projected, our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity, and our ability to restructure existing obligations and establish new business operations will be adversely affected. Our cash flows from mortgage securities are likely to be insufficient to cover our existing expenses in the near future. As payments on our mortgage securities continue to decrease we will become more dependent on the operations and cash flows of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Our principal assets are our equity interests in our operating subsidiaries, approximately $7.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, and $5.3 million in restricted cash. The cash flows from our mortgage securities have materially decreased and will continue to decrease as the underlying mortgage loans are repaid. As this occurs, we will become more dependent on cash flows generated by Streetlinks and Advent, and will rely on distributions and other payments from StreetLinks and Advent and any new operations we may establish or acquire, to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to make distributions or other payments to us, our ability to meet our obligations will be materially and adversely affected. Payments to us by our subsidiaries, in turn, depends upon their results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to profitably manage, operate and grow operations is critical to our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations and is subject to significant uncertainties and limitations. If we attempt to make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. In light of the current state of declining cash flows from our mortgage securities, our ability to pay our operating expenses and meet our other obligations is dependent upon our ability to successfully operate and grow operations such that they generate positive cash flow. Our ability to start or acquire new businesses is significantly constrained by our limited liquidity and our likely inability to obtain debt financing or to issue equity securities as a result of our current financial condition, including a shareholders’ deficit, as well as other uncertainties and risks. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully operate and grow operations or establish or acquire new business operations. If we pursue any new business opportunities, the process of establishing a new business or negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any new business or acquisition. We may not have, and may not be able to acquire or retain, personnel with experience in any new business we may establish or acquire. In addition, future acquisitions could result in contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are unlikely to have access to financing on reasonable terms, or at all, that may be necessary for us to continue to operate or to acquire new businesses. We do not currently have in place any agreements or commitments for short-term financing nor any agreements or commitments for additional long-term financing. In light of these factors and current market conditions, our current financial condition, and our lack of significant unencumbered assets, we are unlikely to be able to secure additional financing for existing or new operations or for any acquisition. Attempts to renegotiate and/or restructure the components of our equity in order to realign the capital structure with our current business model may be unsuccessful. We expect to attempt to renegotiate and/or restructure the components of our equity in order to realign the capital structure with our current business model. In the event we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to pay the accumulated dividends on our preferred stock or redeem such stock. 4 Renegotiating and/or restructuring our equity may involve the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock. To successfully renegotiate and/or restructure our equity we may have to issue a substantial number of shares our common stock. Such an issuance will dilute our existing common stockholders and may depress the market value and price of our common stock. We cannot predict the price at which our common stock would trade following such an issuance. Various legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and liquidity. In the course of our business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In addition, we have become subject to various securities and derivative lawsuits, and we may continue to be subject to additional litigation, in some cases on the basis of novel legal theories. The resolution of these legal matters or other legal matters could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Operating Subsidiaries A prolonged decline in the number of home sales and the originations and refinancings of home loans would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of Streetlinks. Streetlinks, our residential appraisal management company, retains a portion of the fee for appraisal services collected from lenders and borrowers for an independent residential appraisal to cover its costs of managing the process of fulfilling the appraisal order. A prolonged decline in the number of home sales and the originations and refinancings of home loans would cause a decrease in the demand for appraisals. The decreased demand for appraisals would have an adversely affect the revenues and profitability of Streetlinks. Streetlinks may be unable to maintain its relationships with its existing lending customers and may be unable to add new lending customers which would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of Streetlinks. Streetlinks has increased its appraisal order volume by adding lending customers and intends to further develop its business through the addition of new lending customers. There is no assurance that Streetlinks will be able to maintain the relationships with its existing lending customers or add new lending customers which would decrease appraisal order volume and adversely affect the revenues and profitability of Streetlinks. Government agencies and regulatory authorities may change or eliminate current restrictions and requirements for appraisals. Streetlinks’ appraisal order volume has increased, in part, as a result of increased restrictions and requirements for appraisals established by government agencies and regulatory authorities such as the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development that, among other things, require appraiser independence. Changes in or elimination of these restrictions and requirements could adversely affect the demand for StreetLinks’ services and the viability of its business model. Advent may be unable to develop systems and a network of business partners to successfully distribute its products and services. The success of Advent, our start up operation which will provide access to tailored banking accounts, small dollar banking products and related services to meet the needs of low and moderate income level individuals, will in large part depend on its ability to develop systems and a network of business partners for the distribution of its products services. To the extent Advent is unable to develop systems and a network of business partners to successfully distribute Advent’s products and services, it will have an adverse effect on Advent’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Advent’s ability to distribute its financial products is, to some extent, dependent on the success of its business partners. Advent anticipates distributing its financial products through business partners such as tax preparation offices and is to some extent dependent on the success of these business partners. To the extent there is a decrease in the demand for the products or services of Advent’s business partners, there may be a decrease in demand for Advent’s products and services, which would have an adverse effect on Advent’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active role in regulating financial products of the type Advent anticipates offering, and the continuation of this trend could impede or prevent Advent’s ability to facilitate these financial products and harm its business. From time to time, government officials at the federal and state levels introduce and enact legislation and regulations proposing to regulate or prevent the facilitation of financial products. Certain of the proposed legislation and regulations could, if adopted, increase costs to Advent and its business partners that provide its financial products, or could negatively impact or eliminate the ability of Advent to provide financial products through Advent’s business partners such as tax return preparation offices, which could have an adverse effect on Advent’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Many states have statutes regulating, through licensing and other requirements, the activities of brokering loans and providing credit repair services to consumers as well as payday loan laws and local usury laws. Certain state regulators are interpreting these laws in a manner that could adversely affect the manner in which financial products are facilitated or permitted. If Advent is required to change business practices or otherwise comply with these statutes it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Legal proceedings against our operating subsidiaries could adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of their business, our operating subsidiaries may become subject to legal proceedings and claims and could experience significant losses as a result of litigation defense and resolution costs which would have an adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities and to estimate reserves could further adversely affect our financial position. Our securitizations of mortgage loans that were structured as sales for financial reporting purposes resulted in gain recognition at closing as well as the recording of the residual mortgage securities we retained at fair value. The value of residual securities represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the investors, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments and credit losses. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected discount rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Due to deteriorating market conditions, our actual experience has differed significantly from our assumptions, resulting in a reduction in the fair value of these securities and impairments on these securities. If our actual experience continues to differ materially from the assumptions that we used to determine the fair value of these securities, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity will continue to be negatively affected. The value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities may further decline due to factors beyond our control. There are many factors that affect the value of, and cash flows from, our mortgage securities, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the value of the homes collateralizing residential loans may decline due to a variety of reasons beyond our control, such as weak economic conditions or natural disasters. Over the past year, residential property values in most states have declined, in some areas severely, which has increased delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property value. A borrower’s ability to repay a loan also may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as subsequent over-leveraging of the borrower, reductions in personal incomes, and increases in unemployment. In addition, interest-only loans, negative amortization loans, adjustable-rate loans, reduced documentation loans, home equity lines of credit and second lien loans may involve higher than expected delinquencies and defaults. For instance, any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, borrowers with option ARM mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature may experience a substantial increase in their monthly payment, even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, when the loan reaches its negative amortization cap. The current lack of appreciation in residential property values and the adoption of tighter underwriting standards throughout the mortgage loan industry may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to refinance these loans and avoid default. Each of these factors may be exacerbated by general economic slowdowns and by changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws, and other laws. To the extent that delinquencies or losses continue to increase for these or other reasons, the value of our mortgage securities and the mortgage loans held in our portfolio will be further reduced, which will adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, cash flows and financial condition. Further delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans, particularly in the sub-prime sector, may cause us to recognize additional losses, which would further adversely affect our operating results, liquidity, financial condition and business prospects. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan and costs of sale. In the event of a borrower’s bankruptcy, that borrower’s mortgage loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan may in some circumstances be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee under applicable state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that can have a substantial negative effect on our originally anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Also, loans that are delinquent or in default may be unmarketable or saleable only at a discount. 6 We have experienced a significant increase in borrower delinquencies and defaults, which has adversely affected our liquidity, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Nearly all of our remaining loans held for sale are delinquent or are in default. In addition, our economic investment in and cash flows from loans we have securitized continue to be exposed to delinquencies and losses, either through residual securities that we retain in securitizations structured as sales, or through the loans that remain on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in securitizations structured as financings. To the extent that loan delinquencies and defaults continue at their current rates or become more severe, our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition may be further adversely affected. Loans made to nonconforming mortgage borrowers entail relatively higher delinquency and default rates which will result in higher loan losses, which are likely to be exacerbated during economic slowdowns. Nonconforming mortgage borrowers have impaired or limited credit histories, limited documentation of income and higher debt-to-income ratios than traditional mortgage lenders allow. Mortgage loans made to nonconforming mortgage loan borrowers generally entail a higher risk of delinquency and foreclosure than mortgage loans made to borrowers with better credit and, therefore, will result in higher levels of realized losses than conventional loans. General economic slowdowns, such as that currently affecting the United States, are likely to adversely affect nonconforming borrowers to a greater extent than conforming borrowers and, consequently, are likely to have a greater negative impact on delinquency and loss rates with respect to nonconforming loans. Risks Related to Our Discontinued Operations We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could further harm our liquidity. When we sold mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we made customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower, broker, or employee fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. We have received various repurchase demands as performance of subprime mortgage loans has deteriorated. A majority of repurchase requests have been denied, otherwise a negotiated purchase price adjustment was agreed upon with the purchaser. Enforcement of repurchase obligations against us would further harm our liquidity. Risks Related to Interest Rates Changes in interest rates may harm our results of operations and equity value. Our results of operations are likely to be harmed during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest rates. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to our mortgage securities, mortgage loans, floating rate debt obligations, interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps. Interest rate changes could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects in the following ways: interest rate fluctuations may harm our cash flow as the spread between the interest rates we pay on our borrowings and hedges and the interest rates we receive on our mortgage assets narrows; the value of our residual and subordinated securities and the income we receive from them are based primarily on LIBOR, and an increase in LIBOR increases funding costs which reduces the cash flow we receive from, and the value of, these securities; existing borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages or higher risk loan products may incur higher monthly payments as the interest rate increases, and consequently may experience higher delinquency and default rates, resulting in decreased cash flows from, and decreased value of, our mortgage securities; and mortgage prepayment rates vary depending on such factors as mortgage interest rates and market conditions, and changes in prepayment rates may harm our earnings and the value of our mortgage securities. In addition, interest rate changes may also further impact our net book value as our mortgage securities and related hedge derivatives are marked to market each quarter. Generally, as interest rates increase, the value of our mortgage securities decreases which decreases the book value of our equity. Furthermore, shifts in the yield curve, which represents the market’s expectations of future interest rates, also affects the yield required for the purchase of our mortgage securities and therefore their value. To the extent that there is an unexpected change in the yield curve it could have an adverse effect on our mortgage securities portfolio and our financial position. 7 Risks Related to our Capital Stock There can be no assurance that our common stock or Series C Preferred Stock will continue to be traded in an active market. Our common stock and our Series C Preferred Stock were delisted by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in January 2008, as a result of failure to meet applicable standards for continued listing on the NYSE. Our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and on the Pink Sheets. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be maintained. Trading of securities on the OTC and Pink Sheets is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on exchanges, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase our stock will find that the liquidity or transferability of the stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our stock. If an active public trading market cannot be sustained, the trading price of our common and preferred stock could be adversely affected and your ability to transfer your shares of our common and preferred stock may be limited. We are not likely to pay dividends to our common or preferred stockholders in the foreseeable future. We are not required to pay out our taxable income in the form of dividends, as we are no longer subject to a REIT distribution requirement. Instead, payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors. To preserve liquidity, our board of directors has suspended dividend payments on our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D1 Preferred Stock. Dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock and D1 Preferred Stock continue to accrue and the dividend rate on our Series D1 Preferred Stock increased from 9.0% to 13.0%, compounded quarterly, effective January 16, 2008 with respect to all unpaid dividends and subsequently accruing dividends. No dividends can be paid on any of our common stock until all accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D1 Preferred Stock are paid in full. Accumulating dividends with respect to our preferred stock will negatively affect the ability of our common stockholders to receive any distribution or other value upon liquidation. The market price and trading volume of our common and preferred stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our capital stock can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Investors may experience volatile returns and material losses. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our capital stock include: actual or perceived changes in our ability to continue as a going concern; actual or anticipated changes in the delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans, in general, and specifically on the loans we invest in through our mortgage securities; actual or anticipated changes in residential real estate values; actual or anticipated changes in market interest rates; actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and cash flow; general market and economic conditions, including the operations and stock performance of other industry participants; developments in the subprime mortgage lending industry or the financial services sector generally; the impact of new state or federal legislation or adverse court decisions; the activities of investors who engage in short sales of our common stock; actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; sales, or the perception that sales could occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by insiders; additions or departures of senior management and key personnel; and actions by institutional shareholders. Our charter permits us to issue additional equity without shareholder approval, which could materially adversely affect our current shareholders. Our charter permits our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to: authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval, including the issuance of shares of preferred stock that have preference rights over the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or shares of common stock that have preference rights over our outstanding common stock with respect to voting; classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares; and issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock in exchange for outstanding securities, with the consent of the holders of those securities. 8 In connection with any capital restructuring or in order to raise additional capital, we may issue, reclassify or exchange securities, including debt instruments, preferred stock or common stock. Any of these or similar actions by us may dilute your interest in us or reduce the market price of our capital stock, or both. Our outstanding shares of preferred stock have, and any additional series of preferred stock may also have, a preference on distribution payments that limit our ability to make a distribution to common shareholders. Because our decision to issue, reclassify or exchange securities will depend on negotiations with third parties, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future issuances, if any. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Thus, our shareholders will bear the risk that our future issuances, reclassifications and exchanges will reduce the market price of our stock and/or dilute their interest in us. Other Risks Related to our Business Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could be severely limited in the event of certain transfers of our voting securities. We currently have recorded a significant net deferred tax asset, before valuation allowance, almost all of which relates to certain loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in-losses. While we believe that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to utilize such losses in the future, the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses could provide significant future tax savings to us if we are able to use such losses. However, our ability to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted or eliminated due to a future “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. We do not have the ability to prevent such an ownership change from occurring. Consequently, an ownership change could occur that would severely limit our ability to use the tax benefits associated with the net operating loss carryforwards and net unrealized built-in losses, which may result in higher taxable income for us (and a significantly higher tax cost as compared to the situation where these tax benefits are preserved). Some provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their common stock at favorable prices. Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws and Maryland law could discourage, delay or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes with three year staggered terms of office. This makes it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board because a majority of directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. Further, under our charter, generally a director may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of all classes of shares entitled to vote in the election for directors together as a single class. Our bylaws make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting requiring such other person to follow certain advance notice procedures. Finally, Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeover situations. The accounting for our mortgage assets may result in volatility of our results of operations and our financial statements. The accounting treatment applicable to our mortgage assets is dependent on various factors outside of our control and may significantly affect our results of operations and financial statements. As current turmoil in the subprime industry continues to affect the characteristics of our mortgage assets we may be required to adjust the accounting treatment of our assets. As a result of this, stockholders must undertake a complex analysis to understand our earnings (losses), cash flows and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, asset impairment, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by management could significantly change our reported results. 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 