ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. The risk factors identified in the cautionary statements below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. However, these risk factors are not exhaustive, as new risks emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a predictor of actual results. Our future operating results are uncertain and may fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. If our operating results in any future period fluctuate, we may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. It is difficult to predict the timing or amount of our revenues because: • we generate a significant percentage of our revenues from a limited number of clients; • our sales cycles can be lengthy and variable; • Thorough QTc studies are typically of large volume and of short duration; and • sponsors and CROs may unexpectedly cancel, postpone or reduce the size of clinical trials. We make decisions on operating expenses based on anticipated revenue trends and available resources. We also incur expenses educating and providing information to our client base, via consultations, without any obligation by our client to purchase our service solutions. Because many of our expenses are fixed and we are committed to making a significant investment in our organization and in marketing our service solutions, delays in recognizing revenues could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. If we fail to generate the contract signings that we expect or the anticipated revenues from such signings, we may fail to meet financial guidance that we have provided, or may provide in the future, to the public. Failure to meet financial guidance could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and affect our ability to raise capital which could reduce our cash reserves and limit our capital spending. If general economic conditions deteriorate or fail to improve, our operations may be affected and/or we may be unable to secure future financing to make the necessary investments to grow our business. General business and economic conditions have deteriorated globally and to date there has only been moderate relief. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, we have experienced a significant increase in Phase III bookings, a decline in Thorough QTc bookings, and a delay in starts for Thorough QTc trials. Although we believe the fundamental drivers of our core business remain positive, a continued weakened global economy could have an impact on our future results of operations. There is no guarantee that the amounts in our backlog will ever convert to revenue. Should the current economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, the cancellation rates that we have historically experienced could continue or increase. While we believe our current financial condition is very strong and liquid, we have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. Future acquisitions or investments may reduce our readily available capital and require us to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to obtain any 14 Table of Contents financing necessary to make investments in our technology and workforce, we may be unable to achieve the market growth that such investments were intended to generate. If general economic conditions deteriorate or fail to improve, potential clients may be unable to get the necessary financing to conduct business and existing clients may fail to make timely payments for services that we have performed, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase overall revenues and our overall financial position. Many of our existing and potential clients, and in particular, development stage pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, depend on financing to conduct clinical trials and may be affected by poor economic conditions. If financing is unattainable or business is otherwise affected by a troubled economy, clinical trials may be delayed, which could affect our ability to sign new contracts and maintain or increase revenues. In addition, while we take reasonable precautions to avoid credit risk, some clients may have financial difficulties as a result of the lack of financing or the general poor economic conditions, which could result in delayed payments to us for the services we performed. Such delays in payments would result in higher accounts receivable balances and lower liquidity. In addition, this could result in us recording additional expense to write-off the accounts receivable balances remaining if payment is not likely. Consolidation among our clients could cause us to lose clients, decrease the market for our service solutions and result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. Our client base could decline because of consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our service solutions to new clients. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and among CROs has accelerated in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, in times of a weakened economy, less stable companies, such as smaller biotechnology companies, may be at risk of being acquired. In addition, our profitability will suffer if we reduce our prices in response to competitive pressures without achieving corresponding reductions in our expenses. New companies or organizations that result from such consolidation may decide that our service solutions are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or the use of alternative systems. As these industries consolidate, competition to provide service solutions to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our service solutions. Also, if consolidation of larger clients occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we would be likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization’s revenues to achieve expected future growth. We depend entirely on the clinical trial market and a downturn in this market could cause our revenues and profitability to decrease. Our business depends entirely on the clinical trials that pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies conduct. Our revenues and profitability will decline if there is less competition in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries, which could result in fewer products under development and decreased pressure to accelerate a product approval. Our revenues and profitability will also decline if the FDA or similar agencies in foreign countries modify their requirements, thereby decreasing the need for our solutions. Any other developments that adversely affect the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries generally, including federal or state health care reform, product liability claims, new technologies or products or general business conditions, could also decrease the volume of our business. From time to time studies for which we are contracted to provide Cardiac Safety solutions are delayed or postponed resulting in lower than expected revenues. 15 Table of Contents Extensive governmental regulation of the clinical trial process could require costly modifications to our technology, adversely affect prospective clients’ willingness to use our service solutions and increase competition and reduce our market share. We may incur increased expenses or suffer a reduction in revenues if our service solutions do not comply with applicable government regulations or if regulations allow more competition in the marketplace. Conforming our service solutions to these guidelines or to future changes in regulation could substantially increase our expenses. In the United States and in foreign countries, regulatory authorities have also established other standards for conducting clinical trials leading to the approval of new products with which we must comply. We are subject to these regulations because our service solutions assist sponsors and CROs in conducting trials and preparing new drug or device applications. If a regulatory authority concludes that trials were not conducted in accordance with established requirements, it may take a variety of enforcement actions depending upon the nature of the violation and the applicable country. In the United States, these measures may range from issuing a warning letter or seeking injunctive relief or civil penalties to recommending criminal prosecution, which could result in a prohibition of our continued participation in future clinical trials. Our clients and prospective clients will be less likely to use our service solutions if the service solutions do not comply with regulatory requirements in all countries where clinical trials are expected to take place or if we are precluded from participating in clinical trials in countries where trials will be conducted. In addition, changing regulatory requirements could provide an advantage to our competitors if our competitors are able to meet the requirements more rapidly or at lower cost. For example, in the May 12, 2005 ICH release, it was suggested that semi-automated processing of electrocardiograms may be found acceptable in certain instances and thereby replace the manual processing method. Semi-automated processing uses software algorithm-placed measurements that are later adjudicated by a cardiac specialist or physician with overall interpretation by a physician. Manual processing includes manually placed calipers to obtain interval duration measurements interpreted by a cardiologist. Since the 2005 release of the ICH guidance, drug sponsors have shifted towards semi-automated processing allowing more competitors to compete with us in offering this service and, as a result, we have reduced pricing to remain competitive. The effect of such actions has reduced our revenue and gross profit per transaction in prior years and could adversely affect us in the future. The ICH E14 guidance contained in the May 2005 release recommends either fully manual or manual adjudication (semi automatic) approaches for clinical trials in which the assessment of ECG safety is an important objective, such as the Thorough QTc study. If the Thorough QTc study is negative (i.e. the drug has no QT effect), routine ECG safety assessments in late phase clinical trials using fully automated readings may be adequate. If the Thorough QTc study is positive, (i.e. the drug has a QT effect), then intensive ECG monitoring should take place in future clinical trials. If drug sponsors shift towards fully-automated processing for routine or Thorough QTc studies, our future results of operations may be adversely affected as pricing may decline and additional competitors could enter the market. Our failure to maintain revenue and gross profit per transaction may affect our ability to achieve growth in cardiac safety revenues and overall profitability from year to year. Our failure to show growth may also prevent us from meeting the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The FDA may recommend a different approach to measure drug effects on the QT interval of an ECG which could make our systems and processes obsolete and adversely affect revenue and profitability. The FDA has provided guidance reinforcing the need for routine cardiac safety testing as well as Thorough QTc testing for all compounds entering the blood stream. This testing is accomplished by measuring the QT/QTc interval prolongation on an ECG. We function as an ECG core lab and have developed our EXPERT® system and processes to receive the ECGs and obtain and report these measurements. It is possible that, in the future, the FDA may recommend different approaches to measuring drug effects on the QT interval which may diminish the need for an ECG core lab. This would considerably reduce the value of our existing systems and processes and would substantially decrease our revenues and profitability. 16 Table of Contents We have clients from whom we derive substantial revenue and therefore the loss of even a few of our clients could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We have one client that represented approximately 18% of our total revenues for 2009, a decrease from 23% of our total revenues for 2008. While no other client represented more than 10% of our 2009 revenues, our next five largest clients in the aggregate represented approximately 25% of our total revenues for 2009. If we lose all or a material amount of our revenues from any significant clients and do not replace them with revenues from new clients, our revenues will decrease and they may not be sufficient to cover our costs. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues and profitability from a limited number of clients. Our failure to continue to expand our business or manage growth successfully could disrupt our business operations, increase our costs and delay implementation of our business strategies. Difficulties in managing future growth could disrupt our business operations, increase our costs and delay achievement of our business goals, making it more difficult for us to maintain profitability. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to expand and improve our field sales, marketing and services organization and our operations organization, both in the United States and throughout the world. In order to grow, we will need to hire additional personnel. There are a limited number of experienced personnel with an adequate knowledge of our industry, and competition for their services is intense. In addition, we may not be able to project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our service solutions accurately or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate the increases. The expansion of our foreign operations also will require us to assimilate differences in foreign business practices, overcome language barriers and hire and retain qualified personnel abroad. We may not be successful in competing against others providing similar service solutions, which could reduce our revenues, profitability and market share. If our service solutions do not achieve widespread acceptance by our clients, our revenues, profitability and market share will likely decline. Our competitors include other centralized cardiac safety laboratories and CROs. Our targeted clients may decide to choose other service solutions generated internally by them or from another source. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, greater name recognition and more extensive client bases than we do. Further, certain drug development organizations may decide not to outsource all or a significant portion of the cardiac safety activities associated with their clinical research programs, which could reduce our revenues, profitability and market share. Our failure to establish and maintain partnerships and other strategic alliances may delay the development of our service solutions, cause us to lose clients and prevent us from growing our business, any of which could also cause our stock price to decline. We have relationships with providers of clinical pharmacology services, hardware and software systems, telecommunications, web-hosting and development services, systems integration and website content that support our sales and marketing efforts by satisfying other needs of our existing clients that our solutions do not address and by providing us access to their clients as potential sources of new business. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our strategic partners, so they may cease doing business with us on relatively short notice. We may incur liability as a result of providing consulting and Cardiac Safety analysis and interpretation services. We provide consulting and centralized analysis and interpretation of ECGs in connection with our clients’ clinical trials. It is possible that liability may be asserted against us and the physicians who interpret the ECGs for us for failing to accurately diagnose a medical problem indicated by the ECG or for failing to disclose a medical problem to the investigator responsible for the subject being tested. If we are found liable, we may be forced to pay fines and damages and to discontinue a portion of our operations. The contractual protections included in our client contracts and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to protect us against such liability. If the protections are not adequate, our profitability would be negatively impacted and also our stock price would likely fall. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be seriously harmed by our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for specific components of our service solutions. We may increase our dependence on certain suppliers as we continue to develop and enhance our service solutions. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required components, reduced services capacity, price increases, delayed supplier performance and poor component and services quality. For instance, we rely on a limited number of providers to supply ECG equipment, software applications designed for the on-screen measurement of ECG signals and server facilities. If we are unable to obtain products and services from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we need, on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our cardiac safety and ePRO solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Moreover, delays or interruptions in our service, including without limitation delays or interruptions resulting from a change in suppliers, may reduce our revenues, cause customers to terminate their contracts and adversely affect our customer renewals. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or we were otherwise required to find alternative suppliers to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, sales of our solutions would be delayed. To qualify a new supplier and familiarize it with our solutions, quality standards and other requirements is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative relationships on acceptable terms. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair the delivery of customer data and harm our business. We host some of our software at third-party facilities. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster, technical or service lapses or other unanticipated problems at the facilities of our third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in our access and/or our customers’ access to their data from software hosted at these facilities. Our software and customer data may also be subject to sabotage, intentional acts of malfeasance and similar misconduct due to the nature of the Internet. In the past, Internet users have occasionally experienced difficulties with Internet and online services due to system or security failures. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our customers or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Further, in the event that we fail to meet the service requirements under our agreements with our customers, whether resulting from an interruption in service caused by our technology or that of a third-party provider, we could be subject to customer credits or termination of these customer contracts. The cardiac safety equipment that we own and lease could become obsolete due to technological advance. We may not be able to provide the quantity of equipment needed to service our clients. We may fail to obtain the necessary certifications for use of the equipment. Any such development would reduce our revenues and profitability. We own and lease equipment, which we provide to our clients to perform cardiac safety procedures. This equipment may become obsolete due to advances in technology and the introduction of newer equipment models prior to the time that we have fully depreciated the asset or fulfilled our lease obligations. This could result in us recording additional expense to write-off the book value of the equipment. In addition, certifications are required for the use of certain ECG equipment. We have been able to maintain such certifications in the past, but if the requirements for these certifications change or other factors lead to our failure to be compliant, we will lose the certifications and may not be able to satisfy the equipment needs of our clients, which may jeopardize our business relationship and our ability to continue providing services. As a result, we may lose clinical clients if adequate equipment is not available, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability. Capacity constraint or system failures could result in the loss of or liability to clients, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and reduce profitability. In the past, we have been able to staff for increasing workload demands in an expeditious manner. However, there may not be a sufficient and suitable group of potential employees available if rapid growth occurs in a short 18 Table of Contents period of time. If we are unable to hire suitable employees to adequately meet market demand for our solutions, it could affect our ability to bid on this business or to meet existing contractual turnaround times. If our clients experience any significant level of problems with our technology, we may become liable to those clients, we may be unable to persuade our clients to change from a manual, paper-based process and we may lose clients. The success of our service solutions depends on the ability to protect against: • software or hardware malfunctions that interrupt operation of our applications or cause loss of data integrity; • power loss or telecommunications failures; • overloaded systems; • human error; and • natural disasters. Rapidly changing technology may impair our ability to develop and market our solutions and cause us to become less competitive. Our failure to continuously offer competitive service solutions could cause us to lose clients and prevent us from successfully marketing our solutions to prospective clients. As a result, our revenues and profitability would likely decline. Because our business relies on technology, we are susceptible to: • rapid technological change; • changing client needs; • frequent new product introductions; and • evolving industry standards. As the Internet, computer and software industries continue to experience rapid technological change, we must quickly modify our solutions to adapt to such changes. We must develop and introduce new or enhanced service solutions that continually meet changing market demands and that keep pace with evolving industry standards. We have experienced development delays in the past and may experience similar or more significant delays in the future. In addition, competitors may develop products superior to our solutions, which could make our products obsolete. If clinical trial sponsors and CROs do not shift from their existing paper-based methods of collecting and managing clinical trial data at investigator sites to an electronic system with centralization, we may not achieve the market penetration necessary to grow the business at expected levels. If participants conducting clinical trials are unwilling to adopt our technology solutions and new ways of conducting business, our revenues may not be sufficient to achieve our expected growth rate. Our efforts to establish a standardized, electronic process to collect, manage and analyze clinical trial and cardiac safety data are a significant departure from the traditional clinical research process. We estimate that the majority of clinical trials today use manual, paper-based data entry, management and analysis tools. Each clinical trial can involve a multitude of participants, including the sponsor, a CRO, regional site managers, investigators and patients. With so many participants involved in a clinical trial, it may be difficult to convince a sponsor or CRO to accept new methods of conducting a clinical trial. We may not be successful in persuading these participants to change the manner in which they have traditionally operated and to use our service solutions. We depend on certain key executives. If we lose the services of any of these executives, our operations could be disrupted, we could incur additional expenses and our ability to expand our operations could be impeded, particularly if we are not able to recruit a suitable replacement in a timely manner. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives could negatively affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our future performance will depend significantly on the continued service and performance of all of our executives, particularly Dr. Joel Morganroth, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Scientific Officer, and Dr. Michael McKelvey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We also depend on our key 19 Table of Contents technical, client support, sales and other managerial employees. We believe that it would be costly and time consuming to find suitable replacements for our key employees. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology or maintain our technological advantages, we may lose our intellectual property rights and become less competitive. If we fail to protect our intellectual property from infringement, other companies may use our intellectual property to offer competitive products at lower prices. If we fail to compete effectively against these companies, we could lose clients and experience a decline in sales of our solutions. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure. In addition, in 2004 we were issued a U.S. Patent on over 50 claims directed to various features of our EXPERT® workflow enabled data handling technology. On February 2, 2010, we were issued a series of new claims under the same U. S. Patent, which further extends our existing patent protection for the processes embedded in our EXPERTTM 2 technology platform. These new patent claims span a series of innovative and automated processes furthering the science of cardiac safety. We also have filed continuation-in-part applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office pursuing alternative claim coverage and pursuing claim coverage specific to enhancements in our EXPERT® workflow enabled handling technology that is imbedded in our EXPERT® Technology Platform. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology. In addition, our U.S. Patent could be successfully challenged as invalid. Monitoring unauthorized use of our solutions is difficult and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause disruption of our business and loss of value or dilution to our stockholders. From time to time, we evaluate potential investments in, and acquisitions of, complementary technologies, services and businesses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. For example, we acquired CCSS and entered into a long-term strategic relationship with Healthcare Technology Systems, Inc. (HTS) in 2007. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • managing the risks and challenges of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • the price we pay, the expense that we incur or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we eventually realize or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; • failure of a party to perform ancillary contractual obligations related to the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products. In addition, we could discover deficiencies withheld from us in an acquisition due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to the acquisition. These deficiencies could include problems in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and regulatory compliance, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill, as in the case of CCSS, and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial condition and operating results. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, if we finance any future acquisitions by 20 Table of Contents issuing equity securities or convertible debt, our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Specifically, if the market does not embrace the IVR clinical assessments and system we licensed from HTS, we will not be able to achieve the higher revenues and profitability that we had anticipated that this transaction would allow us to generate. Goodwill is subject to impairment which could result in a significant expense. As a result of the CCSS acquisition, we carry a significant amount of goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test at least annually. We perform the impairment test annually as of December 31 or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill might be impaired. Although we made no adjustments as a result of the impairment test as of December 31, 2009, if we determine in connection with future tests that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, we will base the measurement of any impairment on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. An impairment could result in a write-off of goodwill which would reduce our profitability in the period of the write-off. Third parties may claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights, subject us to liability and divert management attention. Although we are not currently involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be a party to litigation in the future either to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property of others. These claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability or invalidate our ownership rights in the technology used in our solutions. As a result, we may have to stop selling our solutions. Litigation, regardless of the merits of the claim or outcome, could consume a great deal of our time and money and would divert management time and attention away from our core business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop using the challenged intellectual property or selling our product or service solutions that incorporate it; • obtain a license to use the challenged intellectual property or to sell product or service solutions that incorporate it, which could be costly or unavailable; and • redesign those product or service solutions that are based on or incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which could be costly and time consuming or could adversely affect the functionality and market acceptance of our products. If we must take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to sell our solutions, which would substantially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our international operations expose us to additional risks. A key element of our business strategy is to expand our international operations. We face a number of risks and expenses that are inherent in operating in foreign countries and, accordingly, our international operations may not achieve profitability consistently each year. The risks to us from our international operations include: • government regulations; • trade restrictions; • burdensome foreign taxes; • exchange rate controls and currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; • varying technology standards; and 21 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. We are subject to a variety of government regulations in the countries where we market our service solutions. We currently operate in the United Kingdom through a foreign subsidiary and may operate in the future in other countries through additional foreign subsidiaries. If we form foreign subsidiaries outside of the United Kingdom, we may need to withhold taxes on earnings or other payments they distribute to us. Generally, we can claim a foreign tax credit against our federal income tax expense for these taxes. However, the United States tax laws have a number of limitations on our ability to claim that credit or to use any foreign tax losses, which could result in higher payment by us of taxes in the United States. We may also need to include our share of our foreign subsidiaries’ earnings in our income even if the subsidiaries do not distribute money to us. As a result, less cash would be available to us in the United States. Our global operations may involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce our reported revenues or increase our reported expenses. We currently do not utilize hedging instruments. The agreements that we sign with clients outside the United States may be governed by the laws of the countries where we provide our service solutions. We may also need to resolve any disputes under these agreements in the courts or other dispute resolution forums in those countries. This could be expensive or could distract management’s attention away from our core business. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could also be a material adverse effect on our stock price. In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess personal medical information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. If we fail to keep this information properly protected we could be subject to significant liability. Our software solutions are used to collect, manage and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. This information is or could be considered to be personal medical information of the clinical trial participants or patients. Regulation of the use and disclosure of personal medical information is complex and growing. Increased focus on individuals’ rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not that law affords a private right of action. Since we receive and process personal information of clinical trial participants and patients from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of any obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect this personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability. 22 Table of Contents The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares in the public markets and subject us to securities class action litigation. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Market prices for securities of software, technology and health care companies have been volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. Accordingly, the trading price for our common stock at any particular time may not be indicative of future trading prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • financial results that are below estimate of such results; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • sales or transfers of large blocks of stock by existing investors; • investors’ general perception of us; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt by us, or other changes in our capital structure; • success of competitive products and technologies; • the failure of any of our software products, services and hosted solutions to achieve or maintain commercial success; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • changes in industry analyst recommendations; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • litigation involving our company or our general industry or both. In addition, if the market for software, technology or health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Sales of large blocks of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Some stockholders may acquire or own large blocks of shares of our outstanding common stock. We cannot predict the effect that public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock, if any. If our stockholders, and particularly our directors and officers, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and issue additional shares in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due 23 Table of Contents to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 