RISK FACTORS Before you invest in our securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below and in “BUSINESS,” “MD&A,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and/or prospects. Conservatorship and Related Matters The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be materially adversely affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure and mission of the company. Future legislation will likely materially affect the role of the company, our business model, our structure and future results of operations. Some or all of our functions could be transferred to other institutions, and we could cease to exist as a stockholder-owned company or at all. If any of these events were to occur, our shares could further diminish in value, or 38 Freddie Mac Table of Contents cease to have any value, and there can be no assurance that our stockholders would receive any compensation for such loss in value. On February 11, 2011, the Obama Administration delivered a report to Congress that lays out the Administration’s plan to reform the U.S. housing finance market, including options for structuring the government’s long-term role in a housing finance system in which the private sector is the dominant provider of mortgage credit. The report recommends winding down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, stating that the Obama Administration will work with FHFA to determine the best way to responsibly reduce the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in the market and ultimately wind down both institutions. The report identifies a number of policy levers that could be used to wind down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, shrink the government’s footprint in housing finance, and help bring private capital back to the mortgage market, including increasing guarantee fees, phasing in a 10% down payment requirement, reducing conforming loan limits, and winding down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s investment portfolios, consistent with the senior preferred stock purchase agreements. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Executive Summary — Long-Term Financial Sustainability and Future Status.” In addition to legislative actions, FHFA has expansive regulatory authority over us, and the manner in which FHFA will use its authority in the future is unclear. FHFA could take a number of regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our company, such as changing or reinstating our current capital requirements, which are not binding during conservatorship. The conservatorship is indefinite in duration and the timing, conditions and likelihood of our emerging from conservatorship are uncertain. Even if the conservatorship is terminated, we would remain subject to the Purchase Agreement, senior preferred stock and warrant. FHFA has stated that there is no exact time frame as to when the conservatorship may end. Termination of the conservatorship (other than in connection with receivership) also requires Treasury’s consent under the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance as to when, and under what circumstances, Treasury would give such consent. There is also significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. It is possible that the conservatorship will end with us being placed into receivership. As discussed above, on February 11, 2011, the Obama Administration delivered a report to Congress that lays out the Administration’s plan to reform the U.S. housing finance market. The report recommends winding down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Executive Summary — Long-Term Financial Sustainability and Future Status.” In addition, Treasury has the ability to acquire almost 80% of our common stock for nominal consideration by exercising the warrant we issued to it pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Consequently, the company could effectively remain under the control of the U.S. government even if the conservatorship was ended and the voting rights of common stockholders restored. The warrant held by Treasury, the restrictions on our business contained in the Purchase Agreement and the senior status of the senior preferred stock issued to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement, if the senior preferred stock has not been redeemed, also could adversely affect our ability to attract new private sector capital in the future should the company be in a position to seek such capital. Moreover, our draws under Treasury’s funding commitment, the senior preferred dividend obligation, and commitment fees paid to Treasury could permanently impair our ability to build independent sources of capital. We expect to make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in future periods, which will adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. It is unlikely that we will generate net income or comprehensive income in excess of our annual dividends payable to Treasury over the long-term, which will lead us to require additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. A variety of factors could lead us to make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in the future, including: • dividend obligations on the senior preferred stock, which are cumulative and accrue at an annual rate of 10% (or 12% in any quarter in which dividends are not paid in cash) until all accrued dividends are paid in cash and which at their current level exceed our annual historical earnings in all but one period; • future losses, driven by ongoing weak economic conditions, which could cause, among other things, continued high provision for credit losses, increased REO operations expense and additional unrealized losses on the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold; • required reductions in the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio and other limitations on our investment activities that reduce the earnings capacity of our investment activities; 39 Freddie Mac Table of Contents • pursuit of public mission-oriented objectives that could produce suboptimal financial returns, such as our efforts under the MHA Program, the continued use or expansion of foreclosure suspensions, and other foreclosure prevention efforts, including any future requirements to reduce the principal amount of loans; • adverse changes in interest rates, the yield curve, implied volatility or mortgage-to-debt OAS, which could reduce net interest income and increase realized and unrealized mark-to-fair-value losses recorded in earnings or AOCI; • limitations in our access to the public debt markets, or increases in our debt funding costs; • establishment of a valuation allowance for our remaining deferred tax asset; • limitations on our ability to develop new products; • changes in business practices and requirements resulting from legislative or regulatory developments; • changes in accounting practices or standards; and • the quarterly commitment fee we must pay to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement (Treasury has waived the fee for the first quarter of 2011). The amount of the fee has not yet been established and could be substantial. Treasury has indicated that it remains committed to protecting taxpayers and ensuring that our future positive earnings are returned to taxpayers as compensation for their investment. Under the Purchase Agreement, the $200 billion cap on Treasury’s funding commitment will increase as necessary to accommodate any cumulative reduction in our net worth during 2010, 2011 and 2012. Although additional draws under the Purchase Agreement will allow us to remain solvent and avoid mandatory receivership, they will also increase the liquidation preference of, and the dividends we owe on, the senior preferred stock. Based on the aggregate liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock of $64.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, Treasury is entitled to annual cash dividends of $6.42 billion, which exceeds our annual historical earnings in all but one period. Increases in the already substantial liquidation preference and senior preferred dividend obligation, along with limited flexibility to redeem the senior preferred stock, will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and add to the significant uncertainty regarding our long-term financial sustainability. Our business objectives and strategies have in some cases been significantly altered since we were placed into conservatorship, and may continue to change, in ways that negatively affect our future financial condition and results of operations. FHFA, as Conservator, has directed the company to focus on managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. At the direction of the Conservator, we have made changes to certain business practices that are designed to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives but may not contribute to our goal of managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. Some of these changes have increased our expenses or caused us to forego revenue opportunities. For example, FHFA has directed that we implement various initiatives under the MHA Program. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the implementation of these initiatives and we cannot currently estimate whether, or the extent to which, costs incurred in the near term from these initiatives may be offset, if at all, by the prevention or reduction of potential future costs of serious delinquencies and foreclosures due to these initiatives. The Conservator and Treasury have also not authorized us to engage in certain business initiatives and transactions, including the purchase or sale of certain assets, which we believe may have had a beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition, if executed. Our inability to execute such initiatives and transactions may adversely affect our profitability. Other agencies of the U.S. government, as well as Congress, also have an interest in the conduct of our business. We do not know what actions they may request us to take. In view of the conservatorship and the reasons stated by FHFA for its establishment, it is likely that our business model and strategic objectives will continue to change, possibly significantly, including in pursuit of our public mission and other non-financial objectives. Among other things, we could experience significant changes in the size, growth and characteristics of our guarantee and investment activities, and we could further change our operational objectives, including our pricing strategy in our core mortgage guarantee business. Accordingly, our strategic and operational focus may not always be consistent with the generation of net income. It is possible that we will make material changes to our capital strategy and to our accounting policies, methods, and estimates. It is also possible that the company could be restructured and its statutory mission revised. In addition, we may be directed to engage in initiatives that are operationally difficult or costly to implement. In a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Congressional Banking and Financial Services Committees dated February 2, 2010, the Acting Director of FHFA stated that minimizing our credit losses is our central goal and that we will be limited to continuing our existing core business activities and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship. The Acting Director stated that FHFA does not expect we will be a substantial buyer or seller of mortgages for our mortgage-related investments portfolio, except for purchases of delinquent mortgages out of PC pools. The Acting 40 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Director also stated that permitting us to engage in new products is inconsistent with the goals of the conservatorship. These restrictions could also adversely affect our financial results in future periods. As our Conservator, FHFA possesses all of the powers of our stockholders, officers and directors. During the conservatorship, the Conservator has delegated certain authority to the Board of Directors to oversee, and management to conduct, day-to-day operations so that the company can continue to operate in the ordinary course of business. FHFA has the ability to withdraw or revise its delegations of authority and override actions of our Board of Directors at any time. The directors serve on behalf of, and exercise authority as directed by, the Conservator. In addition, FHFA has the power to take actions without our knowledge that could be material to investors and could significantly affect our financial performance. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor, and FHFA’s actions as Conservator of both companies could affect competition between us and Fannie Mae. On a number of occasions, FHFA has directed us and Fannie Mae to confer and consider uniform approaches to particular issues and problems, and FHFA has in a few cases directed the two GSEs to adopt common approaches. For example, in January 2011, FHFA announced that it has directed Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to work on a joint initiative, in coordination with HUD, to consider alternatives for future mortgage servicing structures and servicing compensation, including the possibility of reducing or eliminating the minimum servicing fee for performing loans, or other structures. FHFA has also directed Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to discuss with FHFA and with each other, and wherever feasible to develop consistent requirements, policies and processes for, the servicing of non-performing mortgages, and to discuss joint standards for the evaluation of the servicing performance of servicers. We cannot predict the impact on our business of these actions or any similar actions FHFA may require us and Fannie Mae to take in the future. It is possible that FHFA could require us and Fannie Mae to take a common approach that, because of differences in our respective businesses, could place Freddie Mac at a competitive disadvantage to Fannie Mae. These changes and other factors could have material adverse effects on, among other things, our portfolio growth, net worth, credit losses, net interest income, guarantee fee income, net deferred tax assets, and loan loss reserves, and could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In light of the significant uncertainty surrounding these changes, there can be no assurances regarding when, or if, we will return to profitability. We are subject to significant limitations on our business under the Purchase Agreement that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Purchase Agreement includes significant restrictions on our ability to manage our business, including limitations on the amount of indebtedness we may incur, the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio and the circumstances in which we may pay dividends, raise capital and pay down the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock. In addition, the Purchase Agreement provides that we may not enter into any new compensation arrangements or increase amounts or benefits payable under existing compensation arrangements of any executive officers without the consent of the Director of FHFA, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury. In deciding whether or not to consent to any request for approval it receives from us under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury has the right to withhold its consent for any reason and is not required by the agreement to consider any particular factors, including whether or not management believes that the transaction would benefit the company. The limitations under the Purchase Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our regulator may, and in some cases must, place us into receivership, which would result in the liquidation of our assets and terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter; if we are liquidated, there may not be sufficient funds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. Under the GSE Act, FHFA must place us into receivership if FHFA determines in writing that our assets are less than our obligations for a period of 60 days. FHFA has notified us that the measurement period for any mandatory receivership determination with respect to our assets and obligations would commence no earlier than the SEC public filing deadline for our quarterly or annual financial statements and would continue for 60 calendar days after that date. FHFA has also advised us that, if, during that 60-day period, we receive funds from Treasury in an amount at least equal to the deficiency amount under the Purchase Agreement, the Director of FHFA will not make a mandatory receivership determination. In addition, we could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for other reasons, including conditions that FHFA has already asserted existed at the time the then Director of FHFA placed us into conservatorship. These include: a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to unsafe or unsound practices; the existence of an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business; an inability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business; a weakening of our condition due to unsafe or unsound practices or conditions; critical undercapitalization; the likelihood of losses that will deplete substantially all of our capital; or by consent. A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. The appointment of FHFA (or any other entity) as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising as a result of their status as 41 Freddie Mac Table of Contents stockholders or creditors, other than the potential ability to be paid upon our liquidation. Unlike a conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of a receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, there can be no assurance that there would be sufficient proceeds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. To the extent that we are placed in receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guarantee to the holders of our mortgage-related securities, such holders could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guarantee. Only after paying the secured and unsecured claims of the company, the administrative expenses of the receiver and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, which ranks senior to our common stock and all other series of preferred stock upon liquidation, would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. The aggregate liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock owned by Treasury was $64.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. The liquidation preference will increase further if we make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement, if we do not pay dividends owed on the senior preferred stock in cash or if we do not pay the quarterly commitment fee to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement. We have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives that may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to maintain positive net worth. Based on our charter, public statements from Treasury and FHFA officials and guidance from our Conservator, we have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives. These objectives include providing liquidity, stability and affordability in the mortgage market; continuing to provide additional assistance to the struggling housing and mortgage markets; reducing the need to draw funds from Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement; returning to long-term profitability; and protecting the interests of the taxpayers. These objectives create conflicts in strategic and day-to-day decision making that will likely lead to suboptimal outcomes for one or more, or possibly all, of these objectives. Current portfolio investment and mortgage guarantee activities, liquidity support, and loan modification and foreclosure forbearance initiatives, including our efforts under the MHA Program, are intended to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives under conservatorship, but may negatively impact our financial results and net worth. We have experienced significant management changes and internal reorganizations which could increase our control risks and have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. Since September 2008, we have had numerous changes in our senior management and governance structure, including FHFA becoming our Conservator, a reconstituted Board of Directors, three changes in our Chief Executive Officer, three changes in our Chief Financial Officer and a new Chief Operating Officer (who resigned in February 2011). We have recently experienced several significant internal reorganizations. The magnitude of these changes and the short time interval in which they have occurred, particularly during the ongoing housing and economic crisis, add to the risks of control failures, including a failure in the effective operation of our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures. Control failures could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. This turnover of key management positions could further harm our financial performance and results of operations. Management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by these and future reorganizations and the need to operate under the framework of conservatorship. The conservatorship and uncertainty concerning our future may have an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of management and other valuable employees. Our ability to recruit, retain, and engage management and other valuable employees with the necessary skills to conduct our business may be adversely affected by the conservatorship, the uncertainty regarding its duration, the potential for future legislative or regulatory actions that could significantly affect our existence and our role in the secondary mortgage market, and the negative publicity concerning the GSEs. The actions taken by Treasury and the Conservator to date, or that may be taken by them or other government agencies in the future, may have an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of senior executives, management, and other valuable employees. For example, we are subject to restrictions on the amount and type of compensation we may pay our executives under conservatorship. The Conservator has also directed us to maintain individual salaries and wage rates for all employees at 2010 levels for 2011 (except in the case of promotions or significant changes in responsibilities). In addition, statutory and regulatory requirements restricting executive compensation at institutions that have received federal financial assistance, even if not expressly applicable to us, may be interpreted by FHFA or Treasury as limiting the compensation that we are able to provide to our executive officers and other employees. Although we have established compensation programs designed to help retain key employees, we are not currently in a 42 Freddie Mac Table of Contents position to offer employees financial incentives that are equity-based and, as a result of this and other factors relating to the conservatorship that may affect our attractiveness as an employer, we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to other potential employers. Uncertainty about the future of the GSEs affects all of our operations and heightens the risks related to retention of management and other valuable employees. A recovering economy is likely to put additional pressures on turnover in 2011, as other attractive opportunities may become available to people we want to retain. Accordingly, we may not be able to retain or replace executives or other employees with key skills, and may lose institutional knowledge, that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business effectively. We may also face increased operational risk if key employees leave the company. The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred stockholders. Prior to our entry into conservatorship, the market price for our common stock declined substantially. After our entry into conservatorship, the market price of our common stock continued to decline (to less than $1 per share for an extended period immediately following our entry into conservatorship, and again following the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE at the direction of FHFA). As a result, the investments of our common and preferred stockholders lost substantial value, which they may never recover. There is significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. Therefore, it is likely that our shares could further diminish in value, or cease to have any value. The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, other material adverse effects on our common and preferred stockholders, including the following: • No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our stockholders are suspended during the conservatorship and our common stockholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters. • No longer managed to maximize stockholder returns. Because we are in conservatorship, we are no longer managed with a strategy to maximize stockholder returns. In a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Congressional Banking and Financial Services Committees dated February 2, 2010, the Acting Director of FHFA stated that the focus of the conservatorship is on conserving assets, minimizing corporate losses, ensuring Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae continue to serve their mission, overseeing remediation of identified weaknesses in corporate operations and risk management, and ensuring that sound corporate governance principles are followed. • Priority of Senior Preferred Stock. The senior preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock and all other series of preferred stock as to both dividends and distributions upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the company. • Dividends have been eliminated. The Conservator has eliminated dividends on Freddie Mac common and preferred stock (other than dividends on the senior preferred stock) during the conservatorship. In addition, under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred stockholders (other than on the senior preferred stock) without the consent of Treasury, regardless of whether or not we are in conservatorship. • Warrant may substantially dilute investment of current stockholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common stockholders will be substantially diluted. It is possible that stockholders, other than Treasury, will not own more than 20.1% of our total common stock for the duration of our existence. Under our charter, bylaws and applicable law, 20.1% is insufficient to control the outcome of any vote that is presented to the common stockholders. Accordingly, existing common stockholders have no assurance that, as a group, they will be able to control the election of our directors or the outcome of any other vote after the time, if any, that the conservatorship ends. Competitive and Market Risks Our investment activity is significantly limited under the Purchase Agreement and by FHFA, which will likely reduce our earnings from investment activities and result in greater reliance on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. We are subject to significant limitations on our investment activity, which will adversely affect the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio. These limitations include: (a) a requirement to reduce the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio; and (b) significant constraints on our ability to purchase or sell mortgage assets. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, our mortgage-related investments portfolio is subject to a cap that decreases by 10% each year until the portfolio reaches $250 billion. As a result, the UPB of our mortgage-related investments portfolio could not exceed $810 billion as of December 31, 2010 and may not exceed $729 billion as of December 31, 2011. Treasury has stated it does not expect us to be an active buyer to increase the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio, but also does not expect that active selling will be necessary to meet the required portfolio reduction targets. In addition, FHFA has stated that, given the size of our current mortgage-related investments portfolio and 43 Freddie Mac Table of Contents the potential volume of delinquent mortgages to be purchased out of PC pools, it expects that any net additions to our mortgage-related investments portfolio would be related to that activity. Therefore, our ability to take advantage of opportunities to purchase or sell mortgage assets at attractive prices has been, and likely will continue to be, limited. In addition, notwithstanding the expectations expressed by Treasury and FHFA regarding future selling activity, we can provide no assurance that the cap on our mortgage-related investments portfolio will not, over time, force us to sell mortgage assets at unattractive prices, particularly given the potential in coming periods for continued high volumes of loan modifications and purchases of seriously delinquent loans, both of which result in the purchase of mortgage loans from our PCs for our mortgage-related investments portfolio. These limitations will reduce the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio business and require us to place greater emphasis on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. However, under conservatorship, our ability to generate revenue through guarantee activities may be limited, as we may be required to adopt business practices that provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives, but that may negatively impact our future financial results. The combination of the restrictions on our business activities under the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, combined with our potential inability to generate sufficient revenue through our guarantee activities to offset the effects of those restrictions, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the current profitability levels on our new single-family business would be sufficient to attract new private sector capital in the future, should the company be in a position to seek such capital. We are subject to mortgage credit risks, including mortgage credit risk relating to off-balance sheet arrangements; increased credit costs related to these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Mortgage credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to make timely payments on a mortgage we own or guarantee, exposing us to the risk of credit losses and credit-related expenses. We are primarily exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to the single-family and multifamily loans that we hold on our consolidated balance sheets. We are also exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to securities and guarantee arrangements that are not reflected as assets on our consolidated balance sheets. These relate primarily to: (a) Freddie Mac mortgage-related securities backed by multifamily loans; (b) certain single-family Other Guarantee Transactions; and (c) other guarantee commitments, including long-term standby commitments. Factors that affect the level of our mortgage credit risk include the credit profile of the borrower, home prices, the features of the mortgage loan, the type of property securing the mortgage, and local and regional economic conditions, including unemployment rates. We continue to face significant mortgage credit risk, and our credit losses will likely increase in the near term and remain significantly above historical levels for the foreseeable future due to the substantial number of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio on which borrowers owe more than their home is currently worth, as well as the substantial backlog of seriously delinquent loans. While mortgage interest rates remained low in 2010, many borrowers may not have been able to refinance into lower interest mortgages due to substantial declines in home values, market uncertainty and continued high unemployment rates. Therefore, there can be no assurance that continued low mortgage interest rates or efforts to modify and refinance mortgages pursuant to the MHA Program will reduce our overall mortgage credit risk. We also continue to have significant amounts of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio with certain characteristics, such as Alt-A, interest-only, option ARMs, loans with original LTV ratios greater than 90%, and loans where borrowers had FICO scores less than 620 at the time of origination, that expose us to greater credit risk than do other types of mortgage loans. See “Table 44 — Certain Higher — Risk Categories in the Single-Family Credit Guarantee Portfolio” for more information. Beginning in 2008, the conforming loan limits were significantly increased for mortgages originated in certain “high cost” areas (the initial increases applied to loans originated after July 1, 2007). Due to our relative lack of experience with these larger loans, purchases pursuant to the high cost conforming loan limits may also expose us to greater credit risks. We also face the risk that multifamily borrowers will default if they are unable to refinance their loans at an affordable rate. This risk is particularly important with respect to multifamily loans because such loans generally have a balloon payment and typically have a shorter contractual term than single-family mortgages. Borrowers may be less able to refinance their obligations during periods of rising interest rates, which could lead to default if the borrower is unable to find affordable refinancing. This risk is significant given the state of the economy, lower levels of liquidity, property cash flows, and property market values. Of the $108.7 billion in UPB of loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2010, approximately 2% and 4% will reach their maturity during 2011 and 2012, respectively. 44 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are exposed to significant credit risk related to the subprime, Alt-A and option ARM loans that back the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities have included securities that are backed by subprime, Alt-A and option ARM loans. Since 2007, mortgage loan delinquencies and credit losses in the U.S. mortgage market have substantially increased, particularly in the subprime, Alt-A and option ARM sectors of the residential mortgage market. In addition, home prices declined significantly, after extended periods during which home prices appreciated. As a result, the fair value of these investments has declined significantly since 2007 and we have incurred substantial losses through other-than-temporary impairments. In addition, many of these investments do not trade in a liquid secondary market and the size of our holdings relative to normal market activity is such that, if we were to attempt to sell a significant quantity of these securities, the pricing in such markets could be significantly disrupted and the price we ultimately realize may be materially lower than the value at which we carry these investments on our consolidated balance sheets. We could experience additional GAAP losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in these non-agency mortgage-related securities if, among other things: (a) interest rates change; (b) delinquency and loss rates on subprime, Alt-A and option ARM loans increase; or (c) there is a further decline in actual or forecasted home prices. In addition, the fair value of these investments may decline further due to additional ratings downgrades or market events. Any credit enhancements covering these securities, including subordination, may not prevent us from incurring losses. During 2010, we continued to experience the depletion of credit enhancements on selected securities backed by subprime first lien, option ARM and Alt-A loans due to poor performance in the underlying collateral. See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Investments in Securities” for information about the credit ratings for these securities and the extent to which these securities have been downgraded. Certain strategies to mitigate our losses as an investor in non-agency mortgage-related securities may adversely affect our relationships with some of our largest seller/servicers. On July 12, 2010, FHFA, as Conservator of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, announced that it had issued subpoenas to various entities seeking loan files and other transaction documents related to non-agency mortgage-related securities in which the two enterprises invested. FHFA stated that the documents will enable it to determine whether issuers of these securities and others are liable to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae for certain losses they have suffered on the securities. We are assisting FHFA in this effort. We also have joined an investor group that has delivered a notice of non-performance to Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, and Countrywide Home Loans Servicing LP (now known as BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP). The notice related to the possibility that certain mortgage pools backing certain mortgage-related securities issued by Countrywide Financial and related entities include mortgages that may have been ineligible for inclusion in the pools due to breaches of representations or warranties. These and other loss mitigation efforts may lead to disputes with some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties that may result in litigation. The effectiveness of these loss mitigation efforts is highly uncertain and any potential recoveries may take significant time to realize. The credit losses we experience in future periods as a result of the housing and economic crisis are likely to be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. Our loan loss reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, do not reflect our estimate of the total of all future credit losses inherent in our single-family and multifamily mortgage loans, including those underlying our financial guarantees. Rather, pursuant to GAAP, our reserves only reflect probable losses we believe we have already incurred as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, although we believe that our credit losses may exceed the amounts we have already reserved for loans currently identified as impaired, and that additional credit losses will be incurred in the future due to the housing and economic crisis, we are not permitted under GAAP to reflect the potential impact of these future trends in our loan loss reserves. As a result of the depth and extent of the housing and economic crisis, there is significant uncertainty regarding the full extent of future credit losses. Therefore, such credit losses are likely to be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. These additional credit losses we incur in future periods will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Further declines in U.S. home prices or other adverse changes in the U.S. housing market could negatively impact our business and increase our losses. Throughout 2010, the U.S. housing market continued to experience adverse trends, including continued price depreciation, and continued high serious delinquency and default rates. Home sales declined significantly following the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit program in April 2010, which increased the supply of unsold homes and placed further downward pressure on home prices. These conditions, coupled with high continued unemployment, led to 45 Freddie Mac Table of Contents increases in credit losses and continued high loan delinquencies and provisioning for loan losses, all of which have adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations. We expect that national home prices in 2011 will likely be lower than in 2010, which could result in a continued high rate of serious delinquencies or defaults and a level of credit-related losses higher than our expectations when our guarantees were issued. It is possible that home price declines could be significantly greater than we anticipate, or that a sustained recovery in home prices would not begin until much later than we anticipate, which could result in higher losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities than would otherwise be recognized in earnings. Government programs designed to strengthen the U.S. housing market, such as the MHA Program, may fail to achieve expected results, and new programs could be instituted that cause our credit losses to increase. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk.” Our business volumes are closely tied to the rate of growth in total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. Total residential mortgage debt declined approximately 2.3% in the first nine months of 2010 compared to a decline of 1.9% in 2009. If total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt were to continue to decline, there could be fewer mortgage loans available for us to purchase, and we could face more competition to purchase a smaller number of loans. While major national multifamily market fundamentals (i.e., vacancy rates and effective rents) improved during 2010, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Additionally, certain local markets continue to exhibit weak fundamentals. We expect that our multifamily non-performing assets may increase due to the continuation of the challenging economic conditions particularly in certain geographical areas. Improvements in loan performance have historically lagged improvements in broader economic and market trends during market recoveries. As a result, we may continue to experience elevated credit losses related to multifamily activities in the first half of 2011, even if market conditions continue to improve. In addition, given the significant weakness currently being experienced in the U.S. economy, it is also possible that apartment fundamentals could deteriorate during 2011, which could cause delinquencies and credit losses relating to our multifamily activities to increase beyond our current expectations. Our refinance volumes could decline if interest rates rise, which could cause our overall new issuance volumes to decline. We continued to experience a high composition of refinance mortgages in our purchase volume during 2010, due to continued low interest rates and the impact of our relief refinance mortgages. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time, but have recently begun to increase. Overall originations of refinance mortgages, and our purchases of them, will likely decrease if interest rates continue to rise. Originations of refinance mortgages will also likely decline after the Home Affordable Refinance Program expires in June 2011. It is possible that our overall issuance volumes could decline if our volumes of purchase money mortgages do not increase to offset any such decrease in refinance mortgages. This could adversely affect the amount of revenue we receive from our guarantee activities. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business, and our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more of our institutional counterparties do not meet their obligations to us. We face the risk that one or more of the institutional counterparties that has entered into a business contract or arrangement with us may fail to meet its obligations. We face similar risks with respect to contracts or arrangements we benefit from indirectly or that we enter into on behalf of our securitization trusts. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with: • mortgage seller/servicers; • mortgage insurers; • issuers, guarantors or third-party providers of other credit enhancements (including bond insurers); • counterparties to short-term lending and other investment-related agreements and cash equivalent transactions, including such agreements and transactions we manage for our PC trusts; • derivative counterparties; • hazard and title insurers; • mortgage investors and originators; and • document custodians and funds custodians. Many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. In some cases, our business with institutional counterparties is concentrated. A significant failure by a major institutional counterparty could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways and have a material adverse effect on our investments in mortgage loans, investments in securities, our derivative portfolio or our credit guarantee activities. See “NOTE 19: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS” for additional information. 46 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Some of our counterparties may become subject to serious liquidity problems affecting, either temporarily or permanently, their businesses, which may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Challenging market conditions have adversely affected and are expected to continue to adversely affect the liquidity and financial condition of a number of our counterparties, including some seller/servicers, mortgage insurers and bond insurers. In the past few years, some of our largest seller/servicers have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints, and certain large lenders have failed. These challenging market conditions could also increase the likelihood that we will have disputes with our counterparties concerning their obligations to us, especially with respect to counterparties that have experienced financial strain and/or have large exposures to us. A default by a counterparty with significant obligations to us could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations efficiently and at cost-effective rates, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations or our financial condition. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk” for additional information regarding our credit risks to our counterparties and how we seek to manage them. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if mortgage seller/servicers fail to repurchase loans sold to us in breach of representations and warranties or fail to honor any related indemnification or any recourse obligations. We also face the risk that seller/servicers may fail to perform their obligations to service loans in our single-family and multifamily mortgage portfolios or that their servicing performance could decline. We require seller/servicers to make certain representations and warranties regarding the loans they sell to us. If loans are sold to us in breach of those representations and warranties, we have the contractual right to require the seller/servicer to repurchase those loans from us. In lieu of repurchase, we may agree to allow a seller/servicer to indemnify us against losses on such mortgages or otherwise compensate us for the risk of continuing to hold the mortgages. Sometimes a seller/servicer sells us mortgages with recourse, meaning that the seller/servicer agrees to repurchase any mortgage that is delinquent for more than a specified period (usually 120 days), regardless of whether there has been a breach of representations and warranties. Some of our seller/servicers have failed to fully perform their repurchase obligations due to lack of financial capacity, while others, including many of our larger seller/servicers, have not fully performed their repurchase obligations in a timely manner. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the UPB of loans subject to repurchase requests issued to our single-family seller/servicers was approximately $3.8 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively. Our contracts require that a seller/servicer repurchase a mortgage within 30 days after we issue a repurchase request, unless the seller/servicer avails itself of an appeal process provided for in our contracts, in which case the deadline for repurchase is extended until we decide the appeal. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 34% of these repurchase requests were outstanding more than four months since issuance of our repurchase request. The actual amount we collect on these requests and others we may make in the future could be significantly less than their UPB amounts because we expect many of these requests will be satisfied by reimbursement of our realized losses by seller/servicers, instead of repurchase of loans at their UPB, or may be rescinded in the course of the contractual appeals process. Based on our historical loss experience and the fact that many of these loans are covered by credit enhancement, we expect the actual credit losses experienced by us should we fail to collect on these repurchase requests would also be less than the UPB of the loans. We may also enter into agreements with seller/servicers to resolve claims for repurchases. The amounts we receive under any such agreements may be less than the losses we ultimately incur. Our credit losses may increase to the extent our seller/servicers do not fully perform their repurchase obligations. Enforcing repurchase obligations of seller/servicers who have the financial capacity to perform those obligations could also negatively impact our relationships with such customers and ability to retain market share. We also have exposure to seller/servicers with respect to mortgage insurance. When a mortgage insurer rescinds coverage, the seller/servicer generally is in breach of representations and warranties made to us when we purchased the affected mortgage. Consequently, we may require the seller/servicer to repurchase the mortgage or to indemnify us for additional loss. The volume of rescissions of claims under mortgage insurance remains high. If a servicer is unable to fulfill its repurchase or other responsibilities, we may seek to recover the amounts that such servicer owes us, such as by attempting to sell the applicable mortgage servicing rights to a different servicer and applying the proceeds to such owed amounts, or by contracting the servicing responsibilities to a different servicer and retaining the net servicing fee. The ongoing weakness in the housing market has negatively affected the market for mortgage servicing rights, which increases the risk that we may be unable to sell such rights or may not receive a sufficient price for them. Increased industry consolidation, bankruptcies of mortgage bankers or bank failures may also make it more difficult for us to sell such rights, because there may not be sufficient capacity in the market, particularly in the event of multiple failures. This option may be difficult to accomplish with respect to our larger seller/servicers, as it may be difficult to transfer a large servicing portfolio. The financial stress on servicers and increased costs of servicing may lead to strategic defaults (i.e., defaults done deliberately as a financial strategy, and not involuntarily) by servicers, which would also require us to seek a successor servicer. 47 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our seller/servicers have a significant role in servicing loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio, which includes an active role in our loss mitigation efforts. Therefore, a decline in their performance could impact the overall quality of our credit performance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and have significant impacts on our ability to mitigate credit losses. The risk of such a decline in performance remains high as servicers continue to face challenges in building capacity to process the large volumes of problem loans and as weak economic conditions continue to affect the liquidity and financial condition of many of our seller/servicers, including some of our largest seller/servicers. Any efforts we take to attempt to improve our servicers’ performance could adversely affect our relationships with such servicers, many of which also sell loans to us. The inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our loss mitigation plans, a lower realized rate of seller/servicer repurchases or default rates and severity that exceed our current projections could cause our losses to be significantly higher than those currently estimated. Our seller/servicers also have a significant role in servicing loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio. We are exposed to the risk that multifamily seller/servicers could come under financial pressure due to the current stressful economic environment, which could potentially cause degradation in the quality of servicing they provide or, in certain cases, reduce the likelihood that we could recover losses through lender repurchases or through recourse agreements or other credit enhancements, where applicable. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Mortgage Seller/Servicers” for additional information on our institutional credit risk related to our mortgage seller/servicers. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of our counterparties to derivatives, funding and other transactions. We use derivatives for several purposes, including to rebalance our funding mix in order to more closely match changes in the interest rate characteristics of our mortgage-related assets and to hedge forecasted issuances of debt. The relative concentration of our derivative exposure among our primary derivative counterparties remains high. This concentration increased in the last several years due to industry consolidation and the failure of certain counterparties, and could further increase. One of our derivative counterparties accounted for greater than 10% of our net uncollateralized exposure, excluding commitments, at December 31, 2010. For a further discussion of our derivative counterparty exposure, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Derivative Counterparties” and “NOTE 19: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS.” Some of our derivative and other capital markets counterparties have experienced various degrees of financial distress in the past few years, including liquidity constraints, credit downgrades and bankruptcy. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of these derivative and other capital markets counterparties to the extent that they fail to meet their obligations to us. For example, we may incur losses if collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices that are sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. In addition, our ability to engage in routine derivatives, funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide disruptions in which it may be difficult for us to find acceptable counterparties for such transactions. We also use derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. Thus, if our access to the derivative markets were disrupted, it may become more difficult or expensive to fund our business activities and achieve the funding mix we desire, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our credit and other losses could increase if our mortgage or bond insurers become insolvent or fail to perform their obligations to us. We are exposed to risk relating to the potential insolvency or non-performance of mortgage insurers that insure single-family mortgages we purchase or guarantee and bond insurers that insure bonds we hold as investment securities on our consolidated balance sheets. The weakened financial condition and liquidity position of these counterparties increases the risk that these entities will fail to reimburse us for claims under insurance policies. This risk could increase if home prices deteriorate further or if the economy worsens. As a guarantor, we remain responsible for the payment of principal and interest if a mortgage insurer fails to meet its obligations to reimburse us for claims. Thus, if any of our mortgage insurers that provide credit enhancement fails to fulfill its obligation, we could experience increased credit losses. In addition, if a regulator determined that a mortgage insurer lacked sufficient capital to pay all claims when due, the regulator could take action that might impact the timing and amount of claim payments made to us. We independently assess the financial condition, including the claims-paying resources, of 48 Freddie Mac Table of Contents each of our mortgage insurers. Based on our analysis of the financial condition of a mortgage insurer and pursuant to our eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers, we could take action against a mortgage insurer intended to protect our interests that may impact the timing and amount of claims payments received from that insurer. In the event one or more of our bond insurers were to become insolvent, it is likely that we would not collect all of our claims from the affected insurer, and it would impact our ability to recover certain unrealized losses on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities. We expect to receive substantially less than full payment of our claims from Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, or FGIC, and Ambac Assurance Corporation, or Ambac, due to adverse developments concerning these companies. We believe that, in addition to FGIC and Ambac, some of our other bond insurers lack sufficient ability to fully meet all of their expected lifetime claims-paying obligations to us as such claims emerge. For more information on the developments concerning FGIC and Ambac, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Bond Insurers.” If mortgage insurers were to further tighten their standards or fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements, the volume of high LTV ratio mortgages available for us to purchase could be reduced, which could negatively affect our business and make it more difficult for us to meet our affordable housing goals. Mortgage insurance standards could constrain our ability to increase our purchases of high LTV loans in the future, should we want to do so. Our charter requires that single-family mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% at the time of purchase be covered by specified credit enhancements or participation interests. Our purchases of mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% (other than relief refinance mortgages) have declined in recent years, in part because mortgage insurers tightened their eligibility requirements with respect to the issuance of insurance on new mortgages with higher LTV ratios. Recently, mortgage insurers have loosened some of these requirements. However, if mortgage insurers further restrict their eligibility requirements for high LTV ratio loans, or if we are no longer willing or able to obtain mortgage insurance from these counterparties, and we are not able to avail ourselves of suitable alternative methods of obtaining credit enhancement for these loans, we may be further restricted in our ability to purchase or securitize loans with LTV ratios over 80% at the time of purchase. If a mortgage insurance company were to fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements and not obtain appropriate waivers, it could become subject to regulatory actions that restrict its ability to write new business in certain, or in some cases all, states. At least one of our mortgage insurers has fallen out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements, and others may do so in the future. A mortgage insurer may attempt a corporate restructuring designed to enable it to continue to write new business through a new entity in the event the insurer falls out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements. Several insurers have completed such a restructuring. However, there can be no assurance that an insurer would be able to effect such a restructuring in the future, as the restructured entity would be required to satisfy regulatory requirements as well as our own conditions. These restructuring plans generally involve contributing capital to a subsidiary or affiliate. This could result in less liquidity available to the mortgage insurer to pay claims on its existing book of business, and an increased risk that the mortgage insurer would not pay its claims in full in the future. Where mortgage insurance or another charter-acceptable credit enhancement is not available, it may be more difficult for us to purchase high LTV ratio (above 80%) loans that refinance mortgages into more affordable loans. The unavailability of suitable credit enhancement could also negatively impact our ability to pursue new business opportunities relating to high LTV ratio and other higher risk loans, should we seek, or be directed, to pursue such business opportunities. This could also impact our ability to meet our affordable housing goals, as purchases of loans with high LTV ratios can contribute to our performance under those goals. The loss of business volume from key lenders could result in a decline in our market share and revenues. Our business depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans. We purchase a significant percentage of our single-family mortgages from several large mortgage originators. During 2010 and 2009, approximately 78% and 74%, respectively, of our guaranteed mortgage securities issuances originated from purchase volume associated with our ten largest customers. During 2010, three mortgage lenders (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Chase Home Finance LLC) each accounted for more than 10% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume and collectively accounted for approximately 50% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume. Similarly, we acquire a significant portion of our multifamily mortgage loans from several large lenders. We enter into mortgage purchase volume commitments with many of our single-family customers that provide for the customers to deliver to us a specified dollar amount of mortgages during a specified period of time. Some commitments may also provide for the lender to deliver to us a minimum percentage of their total sales of conforming loans. There is a risk that we will not be able to enter into a new commitment with a key customer that will maintain mortgage purchase volume following the expiration of the existing commitment. Since 2007, the mortgage industry has consolidated significantly and a smaller number of large lenders originate most single-family mortgages. The 49 Freddie Mac Table of Contents loss of business from any one of our major lenders could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. Many of our seller/servicers also have tightened their lending criteria in recent years, which has reduced their loan volume, thus reducing the volume of loans available for us to purchase. Ongoing weak business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including conditions in the international markets for our investments or our mortgage-related and debt securities. These conditions include employment rates, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, the strength of the U.S. financial markets and national economy and the local economies in which we conduct business, and the economies of other countries that purchase our mortgage-related and debt securities. There is significant uncertainty regarding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery. While the financial markets appear to have stabilized, there can be no assurance that this will continue. If the U.S. economy remains weak, we could experience continued high serious delinquencies and credit losses, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The mortgage credit markets have experienced very difficult conditions and volatility since 2007. This has resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity within the mortgage industry, causing disruptions to normal operations of major mortgage originators, including some of our largest customers, and contributed to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions. These conditions also resulted in significant volatility, wide credit spreads and a lack of price transparency and could contribute to further consolidation within the financial services industry. We continue to be subject to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations due to our activities involving securities, mortgages, derivatives and other mortgage commitments with our customers. Competition from banking and non-banking companies may harm our business. Competition in the secondary mortgage market combined with a decline in the amount of residential mortgage debt outstanding may make it more difficult for us to purchase mortgages. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressures may make our products less attractive in the market and negatively impact our financial results. Increased competition from Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae may alter our product mix, lower volumes and reduce revenues on new business. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor, and FHFA’s actions as Conservator of both companies could affect competition between us and Fannie Mae. Efforts we may make to increase the profitability of new single-family guarantee business, such as by tightening credit standards or raising guarantee fees, could cause our market share to decrease and the volume of our single-family guarantee business to decline. Historically, we also competed with other financial institutions that retain or securitize mortgages, such as commercial and investment banks, dealers, thrift institutions, and insurance companies. While many of these institutions have ceased or substantially reduced their activities in the secondary market since 2008, it is possible that these institutions will reenter the secondary market. Our business may be adversely affected by limited availability of financing and increased funding costs. The amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial institutions and the capital markets, directly impacts our interest expense and results of operations. A number of factors could make such financing more difficult to obtain, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, both domestically and internationally, including: • termination of, or future restrictions or other adverse changes with respect to, government support programs that may benefit us; • reduced demand for our debt securities; and • competition for debt funding from other debt issuers. Our ability to obtain funding in the public debt markets or by pledging mortgage-related securities as collateral to other financial institutions could cease or change rapidly, and the cost of available funding could increase significantly due to changes in market confidence and other factors. For example, in the fall of 2008, we experienced significant deterioration in our access to the unsecured medium- and long-term debt markets, and were forced to rely on short-term debt to fund our purchases of mortgage assets and refinance maturing debt and to rely on derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. We follow certain liquidity management practices and procedures. However, in the event we were unable to obtain funding from the public debt markets, there can be no assurance that such practices and procedures would provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing cash obligations for an extended period. Since 2008, the ratings on the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold backed by Alt-A, subprime and option ARM loans have decreased, limiting their availability as a significant source of liquidity for us through sales or use as 50 Freddie Mac Table of Contents collateral in secured lending transactions. In addition, adverse market conditions have negatively impacted our ability to enter into secured lending transactions using agency securities as collateral. These trends are likely to continue in the future. Government Support Changes or perceived changes in the government’s support of us could have a severe negative effect on our access to the debt markets and our debt funding costs. Under the Purchase Agreement, the $200 billion cap on Treasury’s funding commitment will increase as necessary to accommodate any cumulative reduction in our net worth during 2010, 2011 and 2012. While we believe that the support provided by Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement currently enables us to maintain our access to the debt markets and to have adequate liquidity to conduct our normal business activities, the costs of our debt funding could vary due to the uncertainty about the future of the GSEs and potential investor concerns about the adequacy of funding available to us under the Purchase Agreement after 2012. The cost of our debt funding could increase if debt investors believe that the risk that we could be placed into receivership is increasing. In addition, under the Purchase Agreement, without the prior consent of Treasury, we may not increase our total indebtedness above a specified limit or become liable for any subordinated indebtedness. We do not currently have a liquidity backstop available to us (other than draws from Treasury under the Purchase Agreement and Treasury’s ability to purchase up to $2.25 billion of our obligations under its permanent statutory authority) if we are unable to obtain funding from issuances of debt or other conventional sources. At present, we are not able to predict the likelihood that a liquidity backstop will be needed, or to identify the alternative sources of liquidity that might be available to us if needed, other than from Treasury as referenced above. Demand for Debt Funding The willingness of domestic and foreign investors to purchase and hold our debt securities can be influenced by many factors, including changes in the world economy, changes in foreign-currency exchange rates, regulatory and political factors, as well as the availability of and preferences for other investments. If investors were to divest their holdings or reduce their purchases of our debt securities, our funding costs could increase. The willingness of investors to purchase or hold our debt securities, and any changes to such willingness, may materially affect our liquidity, our business and results of operations. Competition for Debt Funding We compete for low-cost debt funding with Fannie Mae, the FHLBs and other institutions. Competition for debt funding from these entities can vary with changes in economic, financial market and regulatory environments. Increased competition for low-cost debt funding may result in a higher cost to finance our business, which could negatively affect our financial results. An inability to issue debt securities at attractive rates in amounts sufficient to fund our business activities and meet our obligations could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. See “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Other Debt Securities” for a description of our debt issuance programs. Our funding costs may also be affected by changes in the amount of, and demand for, debt issued by Treasury. Line of Credit We maintain a secured intraday line of credit to provide additional intraday liquidity to fund our activities through the Fedwire system. This line of credit requires us to post collateral to a third party. In certain circumstances, this secured counterparty may be able to repledge the collateral underlying our financing without our consent. In addition, because the secured intraday line of credit is uncommitted, we may not be able to continue to draw on it if and when needed. Any decline in the price performance of or demand for our PCs could have an adverse effect on the volume and profitability of our new single-family guarantee business. Our PCs are an integral part of our mortgage purchase program. We purchase many mortgages by issuing PCs in exchange for them in guarantor swap transactions. We also issue PCs backed by mortgage loans that we purchased for cash. Our competitiveness in purchasing single-family mortgages from our seller/servicers, and thus the volume and profitability of new single-family business, can be directly affected by the relative price performance of our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities. Increasing demand for our PCs helps support the price performance of our PCs, which in turn helps us compete with Fannie Mae and others in purchasing mortgages. Our PCs typically trade at a discount to comparable Fannie Mae securities, which creates an incentive for customers to conduct a disproportionate share of their guarantor business with Fannie Mae. Various factors, including market conditions and the relative rates at which the underlying mortgages prepay, affect the price performance of our PCs. While we employ a variety of strategies to support the price performance of our PCs, any such strategies may fail or adversely affect our business. For example, we may attempt to compensate customers for the difference in price between our PCs and comparable 51 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Fannie Mae securities by reducing guarantee fees. However, this could adversely affect the profitability of our single-family guarantee business. We may be unable to maintain a liquid and deep market for our PCs, which could also adversely affect the price performance of PCs. A significant reduction in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize could reduce the liquidity of our PCs. A reduction in the credit ratings for our debt could adversely affect our liquidity. Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations play an important role in determining, by means of the ratings they assign to issuers and their debt, the availability and cost of debt funding. We currently receive ratings from three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for our unsecured borrowings. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. Actions by governmental entities or others, including changes in government support for us, additional GAAP losses, additional draws under the Purchase Agreement, a reduction in the credit ratings of or outlook on the U.S. Government, and other factors could adversely affect the credit ratings on our debt. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, or the supply or cost of debt financing available to us. A reduction in our credit ratings could also trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts. A significant increase in our borrowing costs could cause us to sustain additional GAAP losses or impair our liquidity by requiring us to seek other sources of financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We rely on representations and warranties by seller/servicers about the characteristics of the single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize, and we do not independently verify most of the information that is provided to us before we purchase the loan. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (such as the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, loan officer, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about a mortgage loan or a borrower. While we subsequently review a sample of these loans to determine if such loans are in compliance with our contractual standards, there can be no assurance that this would detect or deter mortgage fraud, or otherwise reduce our exposure to the risk of fraud. We are also exposed to fraud by third parties in the mortgage servicing function, particularly with respect to sales of REO properties and other dispositions of non-performing assets. We may experience significant financial losses and reputational damage as a result of such fraud. The value of mortgage-related securities guaranteed by us and held as investments may decline if we were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish. A portion of our investments in mortgage-related securities are securities guaranteed by us. Our valuation of these securities is consistent with GAAP and the legal structure of the guarantee transaction, which includes the Freddie Mac assets transferred to the securitization trusts that serve as collateral for the mortgage-related securities issued by the trusts (i.e.: (a) multifamily PCs; (b) REMICs and Other Structured Securities; and (c) certain Other Guarantee Transactions). The valuation of our guaranteed mortgage securities necessarily reflects investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee and the liquidity that our guarantee provides. If we were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish, the value of our guaranteed securities may decline, thereby reducing the value of the securities reported on our consolidated balance sheets, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. This could also adversely affect our ability to sell or otherwise use these securities for liquidity purposes. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and fair value of net assets. Our investment activities and credit guarantee activities expose us to interest rate and other market risks. Changes in interest rates, up or down, could adversely affect our net interest yield. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, either can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest yield to expand or compress. For example, due to the timing of maturities or rate reset dates on variable-rate instruments, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets. This rate change could cause our net interest yield to compress until the effect of the increase is fully reflected in asset yields. Changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest yield. Our GAAP results can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates, and adverse changes in interest rates could increase our GAAP net loss or deficit in total equity (deficit) materially. For example, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our derivatives portfolio. Since we generally record changes in fair values of our derivatives in current income, such changes could significantly impact our GAAP results. While derivatives are an important aspect of our management of interest-rate risk, they generally increase the volatility of reported net income (loss), because, while fair value changes in derivatives affect net income, fair value changes in several of the types of assets and liabilities being hedged do not affect net 52 Freddie Mac Table of Contents income. Additionally, increases in interest rates could increase other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities. Changes in interest rates may also affect prepayment assumptions, thus potentially impacting the fair value of our assets, including our investments in mortgage-related assets. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. An increased likelihood of prepayment on the mortgages underlying our mortgage-related securities may adversely impact the value of these securities. Interest rates can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including changes in the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, such as the Federal Reserve. Federal Reserve policies directly and indirectly influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. The availability of derivative financial instruments (such as options and interest rate and foreign currency swaps) from acceptable counterparties of the types and in the quantities needed could also affect our ability to effectively manage the risks related to our investment funding. Our strategies and efforts to manage our exposures to these risks may not be effective. In particular, various factors, including uncertainty concerning trends in home prices, have made it more difficult for us to estimate future prepayments. This could make it more difficult for us to manage prepayment risk, and could cause our hedging-related losses to increase. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” for a description of the types of market risks to which we are exposed and how we seek to manage those risks. Changes in OAS could materially impact our fair value of net assets and affect future results of operations and stockholders’ equity (deficit). OAS is an estimate of the yield spread between a given security and an agency debt yield curve. This includes consideration of potential variability in the security’s cash flows resulting from any options embedded in the security, such as prepayment options. The OAS between the mortgage and agency debt sectors can significantly affect the fair value of our net assets. The fair value impact of changes in OAS for a given period represents an estimate of the net unrealized increase or decrease in the fair value of net assets arising from net fluctuations in OAS during that period. We do not attempt to hedge or actively manage the impact of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. Changes in market conditions, including changes in interest rates, may cause fluctuations in OAS. A widening of the OAS on a given asset, which typically causes a decline in the current fair value of that asset, may cause significant mark-to-fair value losses, and may adversely affect our financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit), but may increase the number of attractive investment opportunities in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities. Conversely, a narrowing or tightening of the OAS typically causes an increase in the current fair value of that asset, but may reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities. Consequently, a tightening of the OAS may adversely affect our future financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit). See “MD&A — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AND ANALYSIS — Discussion of Fair Value Results” for a more detailed description of the impacts of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. While wider spreads might create favorable investment opportunities, we are limited in our ability to take advantage of any such opportunities because, under the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, the UPB of our mortgage-related investments portfolio is subject to a cap that declines by 10% per year beginning in 2010 until it reaches $250 billion. FHFA has stated its expectation in the Acting Director’s February 2, 2010 letter that any net additions to our mortgage-related investments portfolio would be related to purchasing delinquent mortgages out of PC pools. We could experience significant reputational harm, which could affect the future of our company, if our efforts under the MHA Program, and other initiatives to support the U.S. residential mortgage market do not succeed. We are focused on the MHA Program and other initiatives to support the U.S. residential mortgage market. If these initiatives do not achieve their desired results, or are otherwise perceived to have failed to achieve their objectives, we may experience damage to our reputation, which may impact the extent of future government support for our business and government decisions with respect to the future status and role of Freddie Mac. Negative publicity causing damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results or net worth. Reputation risk, or the risk to our financial results and net worth from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers or otherwise impair our customer relationships, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, impede our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, hinder our business prospects or adversely impact the trading price of our securities. Perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, our seller/servicers or the financial services and mortgage industries as a whole, particularly as they relate to the current economic downturn, may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputation impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may impair market confidence or investor confidence in our business 53 Freddie Mac Table of Contents operations as well. In addition, negative publicity could expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences, including greater regulatory scrutiny or adverse regulatory or legislative changes, and could affect what changes may occur to our business structure during or following conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. These adverse consequences could result from perceptions concerning our activities and role in addressing the mortgage market crisis, the concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices or our actual or alleged action or failure to act in any number of areas, including corporate governance, regulatory compliance, financial reporting and disclosure, purchases of products perceived to be predatory, safeguarding or using nonpublic personal information, or from actions taken by government regulators in response to our actual or alleged conduct. The MHA Program and other efforts to reduce foreclosures, modify loan terms and refinance mortgages may fail to mitigate our credit losses and may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The MHA Program and other loss mitigation activities are a key component of our strategy for managing and resolving troubled assets and lowering credit losses. However, there can be no assurance that any of our loss mitigation strategies will be successful and that credit losses will not continue to escalate. To the extent that borrowers participate in HAMP in large numbers, it is likely that the costs we incur related to loan modifications and other activities under HAMP will be substantial because we will bear the full cost of the monthly payment reductions related to modifications of loans we own or guarantee, and all servicer and borrower incentive fees. We will not be reimbursed for these costs by Treasury. FHFA has directed us to implement HAMP for troubled mortgages we own or guarantee. It is possible that Treasury could make changes to HAMP that, to the extent we were required to or elected to implement them, could make the program more costly to us, both in terms of credit expenses and the cost of implementing and operating the program. We could also be required or elect to make changes to our implementation of our other loss mitigation activities that could make these activities more costly to us. For example, we could be required to, or elect to, use principal reduction to achieve reduced payments for borrowers. This could further increase our losses, as we could bear the full costs of such reductions. In June 2010, Treasury announced an initiative under which servicers will be required to consider an alternative modification approach that includes a possible reduction of principal for loans with LTV ratios over 115%. Mortgage investors will receive incentives based on the amount of reduced principal. In October 2010, Treasury provided guidance with respect to applying this alternative for borrowers who have already received permanent modifications or are in trial plans. Holders of mortgages and mortgage-related securities are not required to agree to a reduction of principal, but servicers must have a process for considering the approach. We do not currently have plans to apply these changes to mortgages that we own or guarantee. However, it is possible that FHFA might direct us to implement some or all of these changes. Our credit losses could increase to the extent we apply these changes. A significant number of loans are in the trial period of HAMP. Although the ultimate completion rate remains uncertain, a large number of loans have failed to complete the trial period or qualify for any of our other loan modification and loss mitigation programs. It is possible that, in the future, additional loans will fail to complete the trial period or qualify for these other programs. For these loans, HAMP will have effectively delayed the foreclosure process and could increase our losses, to the extent the prices we ultimately receive for the foreclosed properties are less than the prices we could have received had we foreclosed upon the properties earlier, due to continued home price declines. These delays in foreclosure could also cause our REO operations expense to increase, perhaps substantially. Our seller/servicers have a key role in the success of our loss mitigation activities. The continued increases in seriously delinquent loan volume, the ongoing weak conditions of the mortgage market during 2009 and 2010, and the number and variety of additions and changes to HAMP have placed a strain on the loss mitigation resources of many of our seller/servicers. This has also increased the operational complexity of the servicing function, as well as the risk that errors will occur. A decline in the performance of seller/servicers in mitigation efforts could result in missed opportunities for successful loan modifications, an increase in our credit losses and damage to our reputation. Mortgage modifications on the scale of HAMP, particularly any new focus on principal reductions, have the potential to change borrower behavior and mortgage underwriting. This, coupled with the phenomenon of widespread underwater mortgages, could significantly affect borrower attitudes towards homeownership, the commitment of borrowers to making their mortgage payments, the way the market values residential mortgage assets, the way in which we conduct business and, ultimately, our financial results. Depending on the type of loss mitigation activities we pursue, those activities could result in accelerating or slowing prepayments on our PCs and REMICs and Other Structured Securities, either of which could negatively affect the pricing of such securities. We are devoting significant internal resources to the implementation of the various initiatives under the MHA Program, which has, and will continue to, increase our expenses. The size and scope of our effort under the MHA Program may also limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities or corporate initiatives. 54 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our relationships with our customers could be harmed by our actions as the compliance agent under HAMP, which could negatively affect our ability to purchase loans from them in the future. We are the compliance agent for certain foreclosure avoidance activities under HAMP by mortgage holders other than Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. In this role, we conduct examinations and review servicer compliance with the published requirements for the program. It is unclear how servicers will perceive our actions as compliance agent. It is possible that this could impair our relationships with our seller/servicers, which could negatively affect our ability to purchase loans from them in the future. We may experience further write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including our investment securities, net deferred tax assets, REO properties or mortgage loans, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We experienced significant losses and write-downs relating to certain of our assets during 2008, 2009, and 2010, including significant declines in market value, impairments of our investment securities, market-based write-downs of REO properties, losses on non-performing loans purchased out of PC pools, and impairments on other assets. The fair value of our assets may be further adversely affected by continued weakness in the economy, further deterioration in the housing and financial markets, additional ratings downgrades or other events. We increased our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets by $8.3 billion during 2010. The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be affected by actions of the Conservator, and legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure and mission of the company. The uncertainty of these developments could materially affect our operations, which could in turn affect our ability or intent to hold investments until the recovery of any temporary unrealized losses. If future events significantly alter our current outlook, a valuation allowance may need to be established for the remaining deferred tax asset. Due to the ongoing weaknesses in the economy and in the housing and financial markets, we may experience additional write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including those that are currently AAA-rated, and the fair values of our assets may continue to decline. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We could also incur losses related to our REO properties due to the occurrence of a major natural or other disaster, such as hurricanes in Florida or earthquakes in California. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our equity securities. Our common stock and classes of preferred stock that previously were listed and traded on the NYSE were delisted from the NYSE effective July 8, 2010, and now trade on the OTC market. The market price of our common stock declined significantly between June 16, 2010, the date we announced our intention to delist these securities, and July 8, 2010, the first day the common stock traded exclusively on the OTC market, and may decline further. Trading volumes on the OTC market have been, and will likely continue to be, less than those on the NYSE, which would make it more difficult for investors to execute transactions in our securities and could make the prices of our securities decline or be more volatile. Operational Risks We have incurred and will continue to incur expenses and we may otherwise be adversely affected by deficiencies in foreclosure practices, as well as related delays in the foreclosure process. In the fall of 2010, several large seller/servicers announced issues relating to the improper preparation and execution of certain documents used in foreclosure proceedings, including affidavits. These announcements have raised various concerns relating to foreclosure practices. The integrity of the foreclosure process is critical to our business, and our financial results could be adversely affected by deficiencies in the conduct of that process. A number of our seller/servicers, including several of our largest ones, temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in certain states in which they do business while they evaluated and addressed these issues. A number of these companies continue to address these issues, and certain of these suspensions remain in effect. In addition, a group consisting of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators in all 50 states and the District of Columbia is reviewing foreclosure practices. Some seller/servicers have announced issues relating to the improper execution of the documents used in foreclosure proceedings. In November 2010, we terminated the eligibility of one law firm to serve as counsel in foreclosures of Freddie Mac mortgages, due to issues with respect to the firm’s foreclosure practices. That firm had been responsible for handling a significant number of foreclosures for our servicers in Florida. It is possible that additional deficiencies in foreclosure practices will be identified, including relating to the foregoing. These issues and the related foreclosure suspensions could prolong the foreclosure process regionally or nationwide and could delay sales of our REO properties. The deficiencies in the conduct of the foreclosure process potentially affect the validity of a number of actions that have already been taken, including foreclosure transfers through which we acquired some of our REO properties and sales of some of our REO properties. It will take time for seller/servicers to complete their 55 Freddie Mac Table of Contents evaluations of these issues and implement remedial actions. It is possible that different procedures will need to be developed and implemented for individual states because of differences in applicable state laws. In addition, a number of parties involved in residential real estate transactions as well as various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, may need to agree to any remedial actions, which could further complicate and delay the process of resolving these issues. These parties potentially include seller/servicers, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, FHFA, state or local authorities, mortgage insurers and title insurance companies. In many cases, the remedial actions will require court approval. It is possible that courts in different states, as well as individual courts within the same state, may come to different conclusions with respect to what remedial actions are acceptable. Any delays in the foreclosure process could cause properties awaiting foreclosure to deteriorate until we acquire ownership of them through foreclosure. Such deterioration would increase our expenses to repair and maintain the properties when we do acquire them. Delays in selling REO properties could cause our REO operations expense for current REO properties to increase because those properties will stay in REO status for a longer period of time, which would increase the ongoing costs we incur to maintain or protect them. In addition, our disposition losses, which are a component of REO operations expense, could increase to the extent home prices decline during this period of delay and the prices we ultimately receive for the REO properties are less than the prices we could have received had we acquired and sold them earlier. Concerns about the impact of deficient foreclosure practices on title to REO properties may create additional uncertainty among mortgage investors and potential home buyers about future trends in home prices. Over the long term, concerns about foreclosure practices may adversely affect trends in home prices regionally or nationally, which could also adversely affect our financial results. These concerns could increase both the uncertainty about the results of our models and the risk of errors in the implementation, operation or use of our models, in part because greater management judgment will need to be applied. Any delays in the foreclosure process could also create fluctuations in our single-family credit statistics, including our credit loss statistics and reported serious delinquency rates. Our realization of credit losses, which consists of REO operations income (expense) plus charge-offs, net, could be delayed because we record charge-offs at the time we take ownership of a property through foreclosure. Delays in the foreclosure process could reduce the rate at which delinquent loans proceed to foreclosure, which could cause a temporary decline in our REO acquisitions and the rate of growth of our REO inventory. This could also temporarily increase the number of seriously delinquent loans that remain in our single-family mortgage portfolio, which could result in higher reported serious delinquency rates and a larger number of non-performing loans than would otherwise have been the case. It also is possible that mortgage insurance claims could be denied if delays caused by servicers’ deficient foreclosure practices prevent servicers from completing foreclosures within required timelines defined by mortgage insurers. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses related to deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices and the costs of remediating them, which may be significant. These costs will include expenses to remediate issues relating to practices of certain legal counsel that will increase our expenses in future periods. We may also incur costs if we become involved in litigation or investigations relating to these issues. While we believe that our seller/servicers would be in violation of their servicing contracts with us to the extent that they improperly executed documents in foreclosure or bankruptcy proceedings, as such contracts require that foreclosure proceedings be conducted in accordance with applicable law, it may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to enforce our contractual rights. Our efforts to enforce our contractual rights may negatively impact our relationships with these seller/servicers, some of which are among our largest sources of mortgage loans. We expect that remedying the document execution issues affecting the foreclosure process and related developments will likely place further strain on the resources of our seller/servicers, possibly including seller/servicers where such issues have not been identified to date. This could negatively affect their ability to service loans in our single-family mortgage portfolio or the quality of service they provide to us. Since our seller/servicers have an active role in our loss mitigation efforts, this could impact the overall quality of our credit performance and our ability to mitigate credit losses. Delays in the foreclosure process may also adversely affect the values of, and our losses on, the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Foreclosure delays may increase the administrative expenses of the securitization trusts for the non-agency mortgage-related securities, thereby reducing the amount of funds available for distribution to investors. In addition, the subordinate classes of securities issued by the securitization trusts will continue to receive interest payments while the defaulted loans remain in the trusts, rather than absorbing the default losses. This may reduce the amount of funds available for the senior tranches we own. The prospect of losses due to these impacts could adversely affect the market value of non-agency mortgage-related securities we own. It has been difficult for us to determine the potential scope of these issues, in part because we must rely on our seller/servicers for much of the pertinent information and these companies have not yet completed their assessments of these 56 Freddie Mac Table of Contents issues. Our evaluation of these issues, as well as the evaluations made by the seller/servicers, is complicated by the fact that state law governs the foreclosure process and, thus, the laws and regulations of a large number of different states must be examined. Issues related to mortgages recorded through MERS could delay or disrupt foreclosure activities and have an adverse effect on our business. The Mortgage Electronic Registration System, or the MERS® System, is an electronic registry that is widely used by seller/servicers, Freddie Mac, and other participants in the mortgage finance industry, to maintain records of beneficial ownership of mortgages. The MERS System is maintained by MERSCORP, Inc., a privately held company, the shareholders of which include a number of organizations in the mortgage industry, including Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and certain seller/servicers, mortgage insurance companies and title insurance companies. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., or MERS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, Inc., has the ability to serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and in that role become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. Freddie Mac seller/servicers may choose to use MERS as a nominee, and to initiate foreclosures in MERS’ name. Approximately 39% of the loans Freddie Mac owns or guarantees are registered in MERS’ name; the beneficial ownership and the ownership of the servicing rights related to those loans are tracked in the MERS System. MERS has been the subject of numerous lawsuits challenging foreclosures on mortgages for which MERS is mortgagee of record as nominee for the beneficial owner. It is possible that adverse judicial decisions, regulatory proceedings or action, or legislative action related to MERS, could delay or disrupt foreclosure of mortgages that are registered on the MERS System. Publicity concerning regulatory or judicial decisions, even if such decisions were not adverse, or MERS-related concerns about the integrity of the assignment process, could adversely affect the mortgage industry and negatively impact public confidence in the foreclosure process, which could lead to legislative or regulatory action. Because MERS often executes legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings, it is possible that investigations by governmental authorities and others into deficiencies in foreclosure practices may negatively impact MERS and the MERS System. Federal or state legislation or regulatory action also could prevent us from using the MERS System for mortgages that we currently own, guarantee, and securitize and for mortgages acquired in the future, or could create additional requirements for the transfer of mortgages that could affect the process for and costs of acquiring, transferring, servicing, and foreclosing mortgages. Such legislation or regulatory action could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, we could be required to transfer mortgages out of the MERS System. There is also uncertainty regarding the extent to which seller/servicers will choose to use the MERS System in the future. Failures by MERS to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process could pose legal, operational and reputational risks for us. We cannot predict the impact that such events or actions may have on our business. Weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and in disclosure controls could result in errors and inadequate disclosures, affect operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results. We face continuing challenges because of deficiencies in our controls. Control deficiencies could result in errors, and lead to inadequate or untimely disclosures, affect operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial results. For information about our ineffective disclosure controls and remaining material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, see “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” There are a number of factors that may impede our efforts to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, including: the nature of the conservatorship and our relationship with FHFA; the complexity of, and significant changes in, our business activities and related GAAP requirements; significant management changes and internal reorganizations in 2010; uncertainty regarding the sustainability of newly established controls; data quality or servicing-related issues; and the uncertain impacts of the ongoing housing and credit market volatility on the results of our models, which are used for financial accounting and reporting purposes. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve and maintain our internal control over financial reporting will ultimately be successful. Effectively designed and operated internal control over financial reporting provides only reasonable assurance that material errors in our financial statements will be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting increases the risk of a material error in our reported financial results and delay in our financial reporting timeline. Depending on the nature of a control failure and any required remediation, ineffective controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Ineffective controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our securities. 57 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We face risks and uncertainties associated with the internal models that we use for financial accounting and reporting purposes, to make business decisions and to manage risks. Market conditions have raised these risks and uncertainties. We make significant use of business and financial models for financial accounting and reporting purposes and to manage risk. We face risk associated with our use of models. First, there is inherently some uncertainty associated with model results. Second, we could fail to properly implement, operate or use our models. Either of these situations could adversely affect our financial statements and our ability to manage risks. We use market-based information as inputs to our models. However, it can take time for data providers to prepare information, and thus the most recent market information may not be available for the preparation of our financial statements. When market conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is an increased risk that the inputs reflected in our models are not representative of current market conditions. The severe deterioration of the housing and credit markets beginning several years ago and, more recently, the extended period of economic weakness and uncertainty has increased the risks associated with our use of models. Our models may not perform as well in situations for which there are few or no recent historical precedents. We have adjusted our models in response to recent events, but there remains some uncertainty about model results. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Our models rely on various assumptions that may be incorrect, including that historical experience can be used to predict future results. It has been more difficult to predict the behaviors of the housing and credit capital markets and market participants over the past several years, due to, among other factors: (a) the uncertainty concerning trends in home prices; (b) the lack of historical evidence about the behavior of deeply underwater borrowers, the effect of an extended period of extremely low interest rates on prepayments, and the impact of widespread loan modification programs, including the potential for the extensive use of principal reductions; and (c) the impact of the concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices and related delays in the foreclosure process. We face the risk that we could fail to implement, operate or use our models properly. For example, the assumptions underlying a model could be invalid, or we could apply a model to events or products outside the model’s intended use. We may fail to code a model correctly, or we could use incorrect data. The complexity and interconnectivity of our models create additional risk regarding the accuracy of model output. While we have processes and controls in place designed to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurances that such processes and controls will be successful. Management often needs to exercise judgment to interpret or adjust modeled results to take into account new information or changes in conditions. The dramatic changes in the housing and credit capital markets in recent years have required frequent adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment in the interpretation and adjustment of the results produced by our models. This further increases both the uncertainty about model results and the risk of errors in the implementation, operation or use of the models. We face the risk that the valuations, risk metrics, amortization results, loan loss reserve estimations and security impairment charges produced by our internal models may be different from actual results, which could adversely affect our business results, cash flows, fair value of net assets, business prospects and future financial results. Changes in, or replacements of, any of our models or in any of the assumptions, judgments or estimates used in the models may cause the results generated by the model to be materially different from those generated by the prior model. The different results could cause a revision of previously reported financial condition or results of operations, depending on when the change to the model, assumption, judgment or estimate is implemented. Any such changes may also cause difficulties in comparisons of the financial condition or results of operations of prior or future periods. Due to increased uncertainty about model results, we also face increased risk that we could make poor business decisions in areas where model results are an important factor, including loan purchases, management and guarantee fee pricing and asset and liability management. Furthermore, any strategies we employ to attempt to manage the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective. See “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES” and “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK — Interest-Rate Risk and Other Market Risks” for more information on our use of models. Changes in our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, are “critical,” as they are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and they require management to make particularly difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates, often regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ from our estimates and the use of different judgments and assumptions related to these policies and estimates could have a material 58 Freddie Mac Table of Contents impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a description of our critical accounting policies, see “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES.” From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised accounting standards could result in material adverse effects to our stockholders’ equity (deficit) and result in or contribute to the need for additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” and “NOTE 2: CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES” for more information. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause losses. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, errors in our financial statements, disruption of our business, liability to customers, further legislative or regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We experienced a number of operational problems in 2010 related to inadequately designed or improperly executed systems. Servicing and loss mitigation processes are currently under considerable stress, which increases the risk that we may experience further operational problems in the future. Corporate reorganizations, inability to retain key staff members, and our efforts to reduce administrative expenses may increase the stress on existing processes. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and manage and analyze significant amounts of information, much of which is provided by third parties. The transactions we process are complex and are subject to various legal, accounting and regulatory standards. The types of transactions we process and the standards relating to those transactions can change rapidly in response to external events, such as the implementation of government-mandated programs and changes in market conditions. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. The information provided by third parties may be incorrect, or we may fail to properly manage or analyze it. Our core systems and technical architecture include many legacy systems and applications that lack scalability and flexibility, which increases the risk of system failure. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions or new types of transactions or products could constrain our ability to pursue new business initiatives. We are investing considerable resources in a long-term project to improve our existing systems infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete this project successfully, or that it will reduce our operational risk. In the past, we have had difficulty in conducting similar large-scale infrastructure improvement projects. Our employees could act improperly for their own gain and cause unexpected losses or reputational damage. While we have processes and systems in place to prevent and detect fraud, there can be no assurance that such processes and systems will be successful. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearinghouses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our customers and manage our exposure to risk. Most of our key business activities are conducted in our principal offices located in McLean, Virginia. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities in which we are located. Potential disruptions may include those involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services we use or that are provided to us. If a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our customers or counterparties may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. We are exposed to the risk that a catastrophic event, such as a terrorist event or natural disaster, could result in a significant business disruption and an inability to process transactions through normal business processes. Any measures we take to mitigate this risk may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. We may not be able to protect the confidentiality of our information. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information, including nonpublic personal information and 59 Freddie Mac Table of Contents sensitive business data, processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured. We rely on third parties for certain important functions, including some that are critical to financial reporting, our mortgage-related investment activity and mortgage loan underwriting. Any failures by those vendors could disrupt our business operations. We outsource certain key functions to external parties, including: (a) processing functions for trade capture, market risk management analytics, and financial instrument valuation; (b) custody and recordkeeping for our mortgage-related investments; (c) processing functions for mortgage loan underwriting and servicing; and (d) certain services we provide to Treasury in our role as program compliance agent under HAMP. We may enter into other key outsourcing relationships in the future. If one or more of these key external parties were not able to perform their functions for a period of time, at an acceptable service level, or for increased volumes, our business operations could be constrained, disrupted or otherwise negatively impacted. Our use of vendors also exposes us to the risk of a loss of intellectual property or of confidential information or other harm. We may also be exposed to reputational harm, to the extent vendors do not conduct their activities under appropriate ethical standards. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to provide services to us. Our risk management efforts may not effectively mitigate the risks we seek to manage. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate operational risks, interest rate and other market risks and credit risks related to our business. Our risk management policies, procedures and techniques may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks we have identified or to appropriately identify additional risks to which we are subject. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” and “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT” for a discussion of our approach to managing the risks we face. Legal and Regulatory Risks The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulation may adversely affect our business activities and financial results. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the regulation of the financial services industry and could affect us in substantial and unforeseeable ways and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes could impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose significant additional costs on us, limit the products we offer, require us to increase our regulatory capital, or make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit management and other valuable employees. We will also face a more complicated regulatory environment due to the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes, which will increase compliance costs and could divert management attention or other resources. The Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes will also significantly affect many aspects of the financial services industry and potentially change the business practices of our customers and counterparties; it is possible that any such changes could adversely affect our business and financial results. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is being accomplished through numerous rulemakings, many of which are expected to be finalized in 2011. The final effects of the legislation will not be known with certainty until these rulemakings are complete. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the preparation of studies of a wide range of issues, which could lead to additional legislative or regulatory changes. It could be difficult for us to comply with any future regulatory changes in a timely manner, due to the potential scope and number of such changes, which could limit our operations and expose us to liability. The long-term impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes on our business and the financial services industry will depend on a number of factors that are difficult to predict, including our ability to successfully implement any changes to our business, changes in consumer behavior and our competitors’ and customers’ responses to the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes. Examples of aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that may significantly affect us include the following: • The new Financial Stability Oversight Council could designate Freddie Mac as a non-bank financial company to be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. If this occurs, the Federal Reserve will have authority to examine Freddie Mac and we may be required to meet more stringent prudential standards than those applicable to 60 Freddie Mac Table of Contents other non-bank financial companies. New prudential standards potentially could include capital requirements that are based on standards applicable to insured depository institutions. • The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on the derivatives market, including by subjecting large derivatives users, which may include Freddie Mac, to extensive new oversight and regulation. These new regulatory standards could impose significant additional costs on us relating to derivatives transactions and it may become more difficult for us to enter into desired hedging transactions with acceptable counterparties on favorable terms. • The Dodd-Frank Act will create new standards and requirements related to asset-backed securities, including requiring securitizers and potentially originators to retain a portion of the underlying loans’ credit risk. Any such new standards and requirements could weaken or remove incentives for financial institutions to sell mortgage loans to us. • The Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes could negatively impact the volume of mortgage originations, and thus adversely affect the number of mortgages available for us to purchase. • Under the Dodd-Frank Act, new minimum mortgage underwriting standards will be required for residential mortgages, including a requirement that lenders make a reasonable and good faith determination based on “verified and documented information” that the consumer has a “reasonable ability to repay” the mortgage. The Act requires regulators to establish a class of qualified loans that will receive certain protections from legal liability, such as the borrower’s right to rescind the loan and seek damages. Mortgage originators and assignees, including Freddie Mac, may be subject to increased legal risk for loans that do not meet these requirements. • Under the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators, including FHFA, are directed to promulgate regulations, to be applicable to financial institutions, including Freddie Mac, that will prohibit incentive-based compensation structures that the regulators determine encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss. It is possible that any such regulations will have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and recruit management and other valuable employees, as we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to other potential employers not subject to these or similar regulations. For more information on the Dodd-Frank Act, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments.” Legislative or regulatory actions could adversely affect our business activities and financial results. In addition to possible GSE reform legislation and the Dodd-Frank Act discussed above, our business initiatives may be directly adversely affected by other legislative and regulatory actions at the federal, state and local levels. We could be negatively affected by legislation or regulatory action that changes the foreclosure process of any individual state. For example, various states and local jurisdictions have implemented mediation programs designed to bring servicers and borrowers together to negotiate workout options. These actions could delay the foreclosure process and increase our expenses, including by potentially delaying the final resolution of delinquent mortgage loans and the disposition of non-performing assets. We could also be affected by any legislative or regulatory changes to existing bankruptcy laws or proceedings or foreclosure processes, including any changes that would allow bankruptcy judges to unilaterally change the terms of mortgage loans or otherwise require principal reductions. Our business could also be adversely affected by any modification, reduction or repeal of the federal income tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments. Legislation or regulatory actions could indirectly adversely affect us to the extent such legislation or actions affect the activities of banks, savings institutions, insurance companies, securities dealers and other regulated entities that constitute a significant part of our customer base or counterparties, or could indirectly affect us to the extent that they modify industry practices. Legislative or regulatory provisions that create or remove incentives for these entities to sell mortgage loans to us, purchase our securities or enter into derivatives or other transactions with us could have a material adverse effect on our business results and financial condition. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is in the process of substantially revising capital guidelines for financial institutions and has recently finalized portions of the so-called “Basel III” guidelines, which would set new capital and liquidity requirements for banks. Phase-in of Basel III is expected to take several years and there is significant uncertainty about how regulators might implement these guidelines or how the resulting regulations might impact us. For example, it is possible that any new regulations on the capital treatment of mortgage servicing rights, risk-based capital requirements for credit risk, and liquidity treatment of our debt and guarantee obligations could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We may make certain changes to our business in an attempt to meet the housing goals and subgoals set for us by FHFA that may increase our losses. We may make adjustments to our mortgage loan sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to meet our housing goals and subgoals, including changes to our underwriting guidelines and the expanded use of targeted initiatives to reach 61 Freddie Mac Table of Contents underserved populations. For example, we may purchase loans that offer lower expected returns on our investment and increase our exposure to credit losses. Doing so could cause us to forgo other purchase opportunities that we would expect to be more profitable. If our current efforts to meet the goals and subgoals prove to be insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could further increase our losses. FHFA has not yet published a final rule with respect to our duty to serve underserved markets. However, it is possible that we could also make changes to our business in the future in response to this duty. If we do not meet our housing goals or duty to serve requirements, and FHFA finds that the goals or requirements were feasible, we may become subject to a housing plan that could require us to take additional steps that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are involved in legal proceedings, governmental investigations and IRS examinations that could result in the payment of substantial damages or otherwise harm our business. We are a party to various legal actions, including litigation in the U.S. Tax Court as result of a dispute of certain tax matters with the IRS related to our 1998 through 2005 federal income tax returns. We are also subject to investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. In addition, certain of our current and former directors, officers and employees are involved in legal proceedings for which they may be entitled to reimbursement by us for costs and expenses of the proceedings. The defense of these or any future claims or proceedings could divert management’s attention and resources from the needs of the business. We may be required to establish reserves and to make substantial payments in the event of adverse judgments or settlements of any such claims, investigations, proceedings or examinations. Any legal proceeding, governmental investigation or examination issue, even if resolved in our favor, could result in negative publicity or cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Furthermore, developments in, outcomes of, impacts of, and costs, expenses, settlements and judgments related to these legal proceedings and governmental investigations and examinations may differ from our expectations and exceed any amounts for which we have reserved or require adjustments to such reserves. We are also cooperating with other investigations, such as the review being conducted by state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators into foreclosure practices. These proceedings could divert management’s attention or other resources. See “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” for information about our pending legal proceedings and “NOTE 14: INCOME TAXES” for information about our litigation with the IRS relating to potential additional income taxes and penalties for the 1998 to 2005 tax years and other tax-related matters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 