Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and the following risk factors. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely effected by any of these risks. This annual report also contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward looking 5 statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Forward Looking Statements.” Certain Risks Relating to Doing Business in Hong Kong and the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC” or “China”). PRC Sovereignty Over Hong Kong Still Developing · The Company’s executive and principal offices are located in Hong Kong, a Special Administrative Region of China (or “SAR”; Hong Kong is sometimes herein referred to as the “Hong Kong SAR”). · As provided in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong (the ”Joint Declaration”) and the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR of China (the “Basic Law”), the Hong Kong SAR is provided a high degree of autonomy except in foreign and defense affairs. The PRC’s political system and policies are not practiced in Hong Kong. Under this principle of “one country, two systems”, Hong Kong maintains a legal system that is based on common law and is different from that of the PRC. · The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be influenced by the political situation in Hong Kong and by the general state of the Hong Kong economy. See “ — Economic Stability Uncertain.” · There can be no assurance that these past or any prospective future changes in political, economic or commercial conditions in Hong Kong and the PRC will not result in a material adverse effect upon the Company. Economic Stability Uncertain · Most economies in the Far East had suffered from large debts, declining company earnings and economic growth, and significant currency devaluation. Although the region, including the PRC, appears to have recovered, there can be no assurance that the recovery will continue. The PRC’s Economic, Political and Social Conditions. · The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been 6 uneven, both geographically and among the various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. · The PRC economy appears to be moving from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our business and operations. · The success of the Company’s activities in the PRC depends on the Company’s continued ability to overcome circumstances specifically effecting the industrial sector, including the relatively poor infrastructure, road transportation and communications network and an uncertain legal and regulatory environment . Economic Reforms May Not Continue or Impact Positively On The Company; Changing Business Environment · Over the past several years, the PRC’s government has pursued economic reform policies including encouraging private economic activities and decentralization of economic deregulation. The PRC government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. 7 Changes in policies by the PRC government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxes, restrictions on currency conversion and imports could materially and adversely effect our business and operating results. The nationalization or other expropriations of private enterprises by the PRC government could result in a loss of our investments in actual funds and time and effort, in China. · The Company’s results at times may also be adversely effected by: · changes in political, economic and social conditions in the PRC; · by changes in government policies such as changes in laws and regulations (or their interpretation); · the introduction of additional measures to control inflation; · changes in the rate or method of taxation; · imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion remittances abroad; · reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions; · a return to the more centrally-planned economy that existed previously We are subject to international economic and political risks, over which we have little or no control. · Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and other unforeseeable risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. SARS and Avian Flu · From December 2002 to June 2003, the PRC and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the 8 SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in the PRC were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Recently, concerns have been raised with respect to the spread of avian flu in various regions in the PRC. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, outbreak of avian flu or the development of a similar health hazard in the PRC, may adversely affect our business and operating results. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, outbreak of avian flu or any other epidemic may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas and, as a result, have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of offices, or the offices of our suppliers and customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Uneven Economic Growth · The PRC’s economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, but that growth has been uneven among various geographic regions and economic sectors. Economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increase of such disparities could adversely effect political or social stability. PRC Inflation · In recent years, the PRC has not experienced significant inflation, and thus inflation has not had a significant effect on our business historically. In response to the increased inflation rate during 2004, the Chinese government announced measures to restrict lending and investment in the PRC in order to reduce inflationary pressure on the PRC’s economy; and the inflation rate reduced in 2005. If the PRC experiences increased inflation in future, the Chinese government may introduce further measures intended to reduce the inflation rate in the PRC. Any such measures adopted by the Chinese government may not be successful in reducing or slowing the increase in the PRC’s inflation rate. Sustained or 9 increased inflation in the PRC may have an adverse impact on the PRC’s economy and may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Uncertain Legal System and Application of Laws · The legislative trend in the PRC over the past decade has been to enhance the protection afforded to foreign investment and allow for more active control by foreign parties of foreign invested enterprises. There can be no assurance that this will continue. In addition, as the PRC economy, business and commercial framework and legal system all continue to develop, that development may adversely effect the Company’s activities in the PRC or the ability of the Company to enter into Sino-foreign agreements. PRC Legal System Business Laws Developing · The PRC does not yet possess a comprehensive body of business law or a consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the enforcement, interpretation and implementation of existing laws, regulations or agreements may be sporadic, inconsistent and subject to considerable discretion. The PRC’s judiciary has not had sufficient opportunity to gain experience in enforcing laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. As the legal system develops, entities such as the Company may be adversely effected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof) and preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. Even when adequate law exists in the PRC, it may not be possible to obtain speedy and equitable enforcement of the law. Government Currency Controls · The PRC government imposes control over its foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of its currency, Renminbi (“RMB”) into foreign exchange and through restrictions on foreign imports. The conversion of RMB into Hong Kong and United States Dollars (“U.S. Dollars”) must be based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”), which rates are set daily based on the previous day’s Chinese interbank foreign exchange market rate with reference to current exchange rates on the world financial markets. · Although the RMB to U.S. dollar exchange rate has generally been stable since January 1, 1994 and the PRC 10 · government has stated its intention to intervene in the future to support the value of the RMB, there can be no assurance that exchange rates will not again become volatile or that the RMB will not devalue further against the U.S. dollar or Hong Kong dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely effect the Company because of foreign currency denominated liabilities, and may materially adversely effect the value, translated into U.S. dollars, of the Company’s net fixed assets situated and to be situated in the PRC, earnings and dividends. Turbulent Relations with the United States of America (“United States”) · Differences between the United States and PRC governments on some political issues continue occasionally to color the relationship. These occasional controversies could materially and adversely effect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely effect the market price of our Ordinary Shares, whether or not they adversely effect our business. Certain Risks Relating to Company’s Business. We Have Made and May Make Further Acquisitions Without Your Approval · Although we endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly or accurately ascertain all such risks. We will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates and in deciding if they should be acquired for cash, equity or debt, and in what combination of cash, equity and/or debt. In October of 2005, we completed our acquisition of 51% of the capital stock of two entities, making the two entities our majority owned subsidiaries. We will not seek stockholder approval for any additional acquisitions unless required by applicable law and regulations. Our stockholders will not have an opportunity to review financial and other information on acquisition candidates prior to consummation of any acquisitions under almost all circumstances. 11 Investors will be relying upon our management, upon whose judgment the investor must depend, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. There can be no assurance that the Company will locate and successfully complete such additional acquisition, or any acquisition will perform as anticipated, will not result in significant unexpected liabilities or will ever contribute significant revenues or profits to the Company or that the Company will not lose its entire investment in any acquisition candidate. Dependence upon Management · The Company is dependent upon the services of its executive officers, in particular Mr. T.C. Leung, the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors and its Chief Executive Officer. The business of the Company could be adversely effected by the loss of services of, or a material reduction in the amount of time devoted to the Company by its executive officers. The Company does not maintain “Key Man” life insurance on the lives of any of its officers and directors. See Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Adverse Impact upon Company of PRC’s Credit Restrictions · The Company faces competition from other distribu­tors of substantially similar products and manufacturers them­selves, both foreign and Chinese. The Company faces its principal competition from foreign manufacturers and other distributors of their products situated in Hong Kong and the PRC. Competition may cause purchaser demands for price reductions and reduced profit margin. Competition with Vendors · As the Company plans to assemble products of the kind that it presently distributes, the Company may directly compete with certain of its vendors. Any such direct competition may adversely effect its relationship with its vendors. See Item 4. “Information on the Company.” Dependence on Vendors; Lack of Long Term Agreements · The Company distributes supplies manufactured by a number of vendors, including Hioki E.E. Corp. (“Hioki”), US Filter/Chemical Feed and Disinfection Group (“USF”) and Lachat Instruments, Inc. (“Lachat”), which are the 12 Company’s largest suppliers. The Company has only a letter from Hioki appointing the Company as Hioki’s sales representative in the PRC, Hong Kong and Macau. Although alternative sources of supply exist, there can be no assurance that the termination of the Company’s relationship with any of the above or other vendors would not have a short-term adverse effect on the Company’s operations due to the Company’s dependence on these vendors. Risks Relating to the Company Itself. Control by T.C. Leung; Potential Conflict of Interests · T.C. Leung, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, as a practical matter, is able to nominate and cause the election of all the members of the Company’s Board of Directors, control the appointment of its officers and the day-to-day affairs and management of the Company. As a consequence, Mr. Leung can have the Company managed in a manner that would be in his own interests and not in the interests of the other shareholders of the Company. See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” and Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation in the British Virgin Islands; Rights of Shareholders Not as Extensive as in U.S. Corporations · Principles of British Virgin Islands (“BVI”) corporate law relating to such matters as the validity of the Company procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of the Company’s shareholders may differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. · The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many United States jurisdictions. Under United States law, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. United States shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders in a United States jurisdiction and executive compensation which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. 13 · The BVI law protecting the interests of the minority shareholders is not as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. The shareholders of the Company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Company’s Board of Directors, and may have more limited rights, than they might have as shareholders of a company incorporated in many United States jurisdictions. Anti-takeover Provisions · The Company has 5,000,000 shares of “blank check preferred stock” authorized. The “blank check preferred stock” is intended to strengthen the Company’s ability to resist an unsolicited takeover bid and may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. The Board of Directors has the right to fix the rights, terms and preferences at the time of issue of “blank check preferred stock” without further action by our shareholders. Uncertainty of Enforcing United States Judgments · There is some uncertainty whether BVI courts would enforce judgments of the courts of the United States and of other foreign jurisdictions, or enforce actions brought in the BVI which are based upon the securities laws of the United States. A final monetary judgment obtained in the United States will be treated as a cause of action in itself by the BVI courts so that no retrial of the issues would be necessary, provided that material preconditions are met and the proceedings pursuant to which judgment was obtained were not contrary to the rules of natural justice. · All of the Company’s directors and executive officers reside outside of the United States, service of process upon the Company and such persons may be difficult to effect in the United States upon all such directors and officers. · All of the Company’s assets are and will be located outside of the United States, in Hong Kong and the PRC, and any judgment obtained in the United States may not be enforced in those jurisdictions. Hong Kong courts will not directly enforce against the Company or such persons judgments obtained in the United States. There is also substantial doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC of actions to enforce judgments of the United States’ courts arising out of or based on the ownership of the securities, including judgments arising out of or based on the civil liability provisions of 14 United States federal or state securities laws or otherwise. See “— Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation in the British Virgin Islands; Rights of Shareholders not as Extensive as in U.S. Corporations.” Being a Foreign Private Issuer Exempts Us From Certain Securities and We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: Exchange Commission (“Commission”) and National Association of Securities · the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; Dealers Automated Quotation System (“NASDAQ”) Requirements · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; · the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months); Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. 15 Our Securities Must Continue To Meet Qualitative And Quantitative Listing Maintenance Criteria For The NASDAQ SmallCap Market · Our securities are quoted and traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet both the qualitative and quantitative criteria for continued quotation and trading of our securities on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. That criteria, which undergoes periodic NASDAQ review. If we are unable to meet the continued quotation criteria of the NASDAQ SmallCap Market and are suspended from trading on these markets, our securities could possibly be traded in the over-the-counter market and be quoted in the so-called “pink sheets” or, if then available, the OTC Bulletin Board. In such an event, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or even obtain accurate quotations of, our securities. See “- We Are Also Required To Meet Certain, But Not All NASDAQ Corporate Governance Criteria.” We Are Also Required To Meet Certain, But Not All, NASDAQ Corporate Governance Criteria · Although, in the past, we have been able to satisfy NASDAQ’s SmallCap Market corporate governance criteria, those criteria are difficult to comply with and include, among other things: · a heightened degree of independence of members of the board of directors with independent directors to, among other things: hold regular meetings among themselves only; · establishment of a code of conduct addressing compliance with laws; and · a limit on payments to independent directors and their family members (other than for services on the board of directors). These corporate governance requirements and a strict definition of “independent director” make it more difficult to find independent directors for our Board of Directors. There is intense competition for qualified independent directors, including those persons with accounting 16 experience and financial statement acumen to serve on audit committees. We believe that continued compliance with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements may be difficult and increase our costs and expenses as the costs of finding and compensating independent directors escalate and the costs of administering their new powers and responsibilities is an added financial burden. If we are unable to attract and keep a sufficient number of independent directors willing to take on the responsibilities imposed by such rules on what we believe to be commercially reasonable terms, our securities may be delisted from NASDAQ. (See “-Being a ‘Controlled Company’ Exempts Us From Certain Other NASDAQ Corporate Governance Criteria.”) Being a “Controlled Company” Exempts Us From Certain Other NASDAQ Corporate Governance Criteria As a result of T.C. Leung, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owning in excess of the majority voting power of our Ordinary Shares, we are a “controlled company” as that term is defined in NASDAQ’s rules and regulations. As a “controlled company”, we are not required to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance criteria, including, among other things, the requirements that the majority of our Board be independent directors, and their having the authority to approve director nominations and executive officer compensation. We Are Not Subject To Various Corporate Governance Measures, Which May Result In Shareholders Having Limited Protections Recent Federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures by securities exchanges and NASDAQ designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Being a “controlled company,” we will be exempt from many, but not all, of those requirements. Furthermore, the absence of such practices with respect to our Company may leave our shareholders without protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. 17 We May Be Exposed To Potential Risks Relating To Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting And Having Those Controls Attested To By Our Independent Auditors · Pursuant to Section 404 of SOX, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 20-F. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of a company’s internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors attest to, our internal controls, as a required part of our Annual Report on Form 20-F beginning with our report for the fiscal year to end December 31, 2007. While we expect to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by SOX, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of these requirements. At present, there is no precedent available with which to measure compliance adequacy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer and the market price of our shares could decline. 18 The Market Price Of Our Securities Has Been Fluctuating Widely · During the past five years, the market price of our Ordinary Shares has been subject to wide fluctuations. Additionally, the Company knows of no reason for these wide fluctuations. See Item 9.A - “Markets.” There Are Risks In Purchasing Low-Priced Securities · If our securities were to be suspended or delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market, they could be subject to rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established clients and “accredited investors” (for example, individuals with a net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by such rules, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination of the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, such rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability to sell any of our securities in any secondary market that may develop for such securities. The SEC has enacted rules that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a price (as therein defined) of less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, including securities listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or on designated exchanges. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure statement prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading. In the event our securities are no longer listed on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or are not otherwise exempt from the provisions of the SEC’s “penny stock” rules, such rules may also affect the ability of broker-dealers and investors to sell our securities. 19 There Is No Assurance Of A Continued Public Market For Our Securities · There can be no assurance that a trading market for our Ordinary Shares will continue. ITEM 