D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $29.5 million in 2004, $9.1 million in 2005 and $3.8 million in 2006. Although we have been profitable in the past, we may not be profitable or meet the level of expectations of the investment community in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our share price. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses. In addition, our operating results may be adversely affected by timing of sales of our products or a shift in our mix of products and services. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues and the loss of any one major customer would decrease our revenues. A large portion of our revenues is derived from substantial orders placed by a relatively small number of customers. Our revenues from our five largest customers represented 43% of our total revenues in 2004, 47% of our total revenues in 2005 and 42% of our total revenues in 2006. Because of our dependence on a small number of customers and large orders, if expected orders are not received, or orders are postponed, reduced or cancelled, our revenues and profitability will be significantly reduced. Our customers are concentrated in the public carrier communications industry and, accordingly, trends in this industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Spending in the global operational support system, or OSS, market in which we operate is built on the need for service providers to support new services and network equipment. In the past few years, we have identified a slow down in global OSS spending which was overturned by a slight recovery starting 2004. However, we are unable to predict these trends or the extent of the impact that they may have on our results of operations. Nevertheless, if a slow-down in capital expenditures in the OSS market resumes, it would reduce our sales and could result in pressure on the price of our products, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Recently, the communications service provider industry has undergone a period of consolidation and mergers. Consolidations and mergers of the providers and the resulting consolidation of customers may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. Our customers are concentrated in the public carrier communications market. The communications service provider industry is currently undergoing a period of consolidation and mergers. Examples of this trend are the SBC merger with AT&T (November 2005) and the AT&T merger with Belsouth (December 2006). Consolidations and mergers of the providers will result in less potential customers and less networks to monitor and manage. Furthermore, the resulting consolidation and merger of our prospective customers may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, in the past two years, we have identified a trend of consolidation and acquisition in the OSS market. Examples of this trend are the IBM acquisition of Micromuse (December 2005) and the IBM acquisition of Vallemt (December 2006). These competitors’ consolidation could result in stronger competition with a larger installation base that could threaten our market positioning and decrease our sales. In addition, the potential for us to be a part of a merger oracquisition, whether friendly or not, is also a realistic scenario that could affect our customers’ acceptance and our financial performance. 8 We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. In January 2005, we closed a private placement transaction in which we raised approximately $14.6 million. Although we currently believe that we have sufficient capital to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months, we may need to raise additional capital in the near future. For example, if our cash flows are less than expected, we may need to raise additional funds to respond to unforeseen technological or marketing hurdles, satisfy unforeseen liabilities, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. We may not be able to obtain funds at the time or times needed on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders would be diluted. Our future operating results depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and if these products do not continue to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. Revenues from licensing, servicing and supporting our Netrac suite of products account for a substantial majority of our total revenues. Our future operating results will depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and improvements to these products. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If they lose acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. This makes it difficult to rely on future revenues from these products. Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods over which we may not have control. Prospective users of our products generally must make a significant commitment of resources. Sales cycles of our products are often lengthy, generally ranging from six to 24 months. Our sales process is often subject to delays caused by lengthy approval processes that usually accompany significant expenditures. In addition, the time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally lasts for six to 24 months. The implementation process is also subject to delay. We cannot control these delays and cannot control the timing of our sales revenue. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and emerging industry standards. The market for our products is characterized by: — emergence of new types of networks and services; — changing services and technologies; — evolving industry standards; — changing regulatory environments; and — rapid changes in communications service providers' requirements. In addition, the introduction of new technologies and new industry standards and practices can render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate and we could lose market acceptance and have reduced related revenues. Accordingly, our financial performance and growth is dependent on our ability to, among other things: — enhance and improve our existing products; — develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, including next-generation and third-generation (3G) networks; — address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; — incorporate new technologies and new infrastructures; and 9 — develop new interfaces between our products and complimentary products. We may not be successful at these tasks. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products and features. In addition, our new products and features may not meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve market acceptance. Our future operating results will depend on the market acceptance of our new modules and features supporting next-generation network, or NGN, and if these investments do not achieve market acceptance, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are in the process of developing, enhancing and deploying our NGN modules and features to support next-generation network architectures and services. We cannot assure you that our NGN modules and features will receive market acceptance. If our NGN modules and features do not receive market acceptance, we may not be able to recover significant resources we invested in the development and enhancement of these modules and features and we may lose future revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If the NGN services (wireline and wireless communication service providers) growth slows, demand for our NGN supporting modules and features may decline. The success of our NGN supporting modules and features will depend heavily on the continued acceptance of the next generation services in the wireline and wireless communication service providers. If use of the next generation services does not continue to grow or grows slower than expected, the market for software that manages communications over NGN modules would be adversely affected. High project prices and the low number of projects sold by us may result in material fluctuations in our operating results, and may also cause our stock price to vary significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past as a result of many factors, many of which are outside of our control. In particular, the high project prices and the low number of such projects sold, as well as the timing of sales, can produce significant fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year financial performance. These fluctuations may increase in the future if we succeed in obtaining larger contracts for projects. The fact that a significant portion of our revenues has been, and is expected to continue to be, derived from substantial orders placed by a few customers exaggerates these fluctuations. The timing and amount of such orders and their fulfillment have caused and will continue to cause material fluctuations in our operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our stock price may also vary significantly as a result of misinterpretation by potential investors of period-to-period comparisons. We depend on strategic relationships and our revenues may be reduced if such relationships are not successful. In addition, our future growth will depend in part on our ability to form new strategic relationships or exploit indirect sales channels that will market our products effectively. Our sales strategy includes direct sales to customers as well as sales through original equipment, system integrators and other indirect channels for sales and support of our products. Specifically, we rely on strategic relationships with system integrators and hardware vendors, such as Nortel and Siemens, to sell our products and services and these relationships may account for a larger portion of our revenues in the future. These parties are not obligated to sell any of our products. Any failure of these relationships to market our products effectively or generate significant revenues for us, a termination of any of these relationships, or if we are unable to form additional strategic alliances in the future that will prove beneficial to us, could harm our operations and profitability. We rely on revenue from our international operations, and if we cannot overcome inherent risks, these operations will not succeed. Our current customers are located in about 20 countries worldwide and we are seeking to expand into other markets. We expect our revenues from international sales to continue to account for a large portion of our total revenues in the future. However, we may not be able to sustain or increase revenues derived from our international operations. In addition, as we conduct business globally, our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: — difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations generally, and time and costs spent on staffing and managing operations in markets from which we do not derive substantial revenue but still need to maintain a presence; 10 — the impact of possible recessionary environments in certain economies; — changes in regulatory requirements, including a slowdown in the rate of privatization of communications service providers; — difficulties in enforcing our rights in various jurisdictions; — reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; — tariffs and other trade barriers; — adverse tax consequences; — restrictions on the conversion of currencies or the repatriation of earnings; — the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and — economic and political instability. We may not be able to effectively manage these risks and these risks may lead to disputes with our customers and suppliers. This may have an adverse effect on our operational margins. Government regulatory policies in the communications industry may harm our business. Government regulatory policies have had a major impact on our ability to attract and retain customers. For example, regulatory authorities have overseen the pricing of new and existing communications services, which, in turn, has impacted our customers’ abilities to make significant capital expenditures. The enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations could inhibit or prevent our customers from purchasing our products. We occasionally perform a large amount of our obligations to customers before we receive payment, and in some instances we commence our performance before we have concluded a written agreement with a customer, which forces us to finance our performance and risk nonpayment. We occasionally perform a large amount of our obligations to customers before receiving payment. In some instances, we incur certain expenses prior to concluding a written agreement with a customer. Because of this, we must finance the costs of performing under our customer agreements, and risk nonpayment. Although our customers are generally large companies, they may not pay our fees when due. Payment of our fees is generally not secured or guaranteed. Delayed payment or failure to receive payment may strain our finances. Some of our customers may terminate their agreements with us after we have partially performed under such agreements, and in such event, we may have difficulty recovering our costs and may lose future revenues. In order to continue to sell our products in a competitive industry, we have often been required to agree to provisions in our contracts with customers that generally make it easier for customers to terminate their agreements with us at various stages of performance, with payments covering only costs incurred by us up to the date of termination. Our performance often largely comprises services and customized products which we cannot recover and resell. As a result, if any of our customers terminate their agreements with us, we may have difficulty recovering our costs up to the date of any termination, despite a customer’s obligation to reimburse us. In such event, we may have reduced future revenues. For example, see the discussion regarding the termination of a contract with a major customer in “Item 8A – Legal Proceedings.” We may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets for our products. The markets for our products are very competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our current and prospective competitors offer a variety of solutions to address the markets for network management system, or NMS, OSS, and business support system, or BSS. Our current and potential competitors include: 11 — organizations’ information technology, or IT, departments, some of which may be our customers or prospective customers, that provide or may attempt to develop NMS, OSS and BSS applications for their particular internal needs; — providers of NMS, OSS and BSS, such as Agilent Technologies, Syndesis Ltd, Hewlett-Packard, Infovista, Oracle (Metasolv), IBM (Micromuse, Vallent) and Telecordia Technology; — communications equipment vendors, such as Nortel, Ericsson, Nokia and Lucent Technologies; — systems integrators who provide programming services to develop customer-specific applications, such as CMGLogica, BusinessEdge, Accenture, Cap Gemini and IBM Global Services; and — managed service providers, such as Nortel and Ericsson, that offer their customers management services on top of their networks rather than building their own network operation center, or NOC, and purchasing an independent management system. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales, customer support, marketing and other resources and longer operating histories than we have. Many also have greater name recognition and a larger installed base of their products and technologies. Any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and may develop products comparable or superior to ours. In addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by the recent trend towards consolidation amongst our competitors. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our revenues and profitability may be reduced. Currency fluctuations could reduce our revenues and profitability. A portion of our revenues and expenses are in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our future expansion may place a strain on our management personnel and resources. In the coming future, we intend to expand into new markets worldwide. In addition, to support our expanded operations we will have to hire additional skilled personnel. We may not be successful in expanding our operations or in hiring additional skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is generally intense. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage the future expansion of our operations will require us to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to perform any of these activities successfully and this could harm our business and reduce our profitability. Due to recent changes in our senior management, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. In March 2005, Menahem Tirosh resigned from his position as our Chief Executive Officer. Meir Lipshes served as our acting Chief Executive Officer from March 2005 to November 2005. From December 2005 to November 2006, Ruben Markus served as our Chief Executive Officer until his resignation and, since December 2006, Meir Lipshes is serving again as our acting Chief Executive Officer. In addition, during 2006, several other members of our senior management left the employment of the Company and as a result, we employed several new high-level officers in 2006. The difficulties inherent in selecting a suitable Chief Executive Officer and other members of the management team, transitioning the Company under the leadership of new management, and assimilating new management personnel into the Company’s corporate culture could cause a reduction in our efficiency and profitability, may harm perceptions of us in the investment community and may cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to retain and attract management and technical personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. The success of our business depends in large part on the continuing contributions of our management and technical personnel. If we are unable to retain several key people, this could cause a reduction in our efficiency and profitability, may harm perceptions of us in the investment community and may cause our stock price to decline. 12 Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel. Highly qualified technical personnel are in demand in Israel, and competition for such personnel is generally intense. If we are not able to attract and retain such personnel when and as needed, our business could be harmed. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and we may lose our rights to it. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our proprietary software technology. We currently have only one registered patent. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: — the measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent others from misappropriating our technology or from independently developing or selling technology or products with features based on or similar to ours; — our customers that are given access to our intellectual property rights under rare circumstances, may infringe these rights; — our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, violated or circumvented and may not provide us with any competitive advantage; — any future litigation to protect our proprietary rights could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail; and — a determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. If we lose any of our rights to our proprietary technology, we may not be able to continue our business. We currently rely on software that we license from third parties, and we may in the future rely on software that we intend to license from third parties. If we fail to maintain these licenses, we may experience delays or reductions in our product shipments and have difficulty continuing our business. We rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. In the future, we may rely on additional software that we intend to license from third parties. Some of these third party software licensors are small or early-stage companies that are not as stable as larger and more established software licensors. Our third-party licensors that are larger and more established software licensors may impose on us stringent conditions to maintain our licenses and may unilaterally change the price and other terms of our licenses. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all or, if available, may infringe upon the proprietary rights of other parties. Our loss of or inability to maintain our existing software licenses or obtain future licenses could result in delays or reductions in our product shipments. These delays or reductions in shipments could cause a reduction in our revenues or profitability and could harm our business. Our technology may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and we may lose our rights to it. We rely on our proprietary software technology, including software that we license from third parties, to compete in our markets. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: — we expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps; — we may inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of other parties and other parties may assert infringement claims against us; — if we violate the intellectual property rights of other parties we may be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use; 13 — any future litigation to defend us against allegations that we have infringed the rights of others could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail or are entitled to indemnification from third parties in connection therewith; and — determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. If we lose any of our rights to our proprietary technology, we may not be able to continue our business. Defects in our software products could reduce our revenues and harm our reputation. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex software products involve substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in products after they are licensed to customers. This could result in: — a delay in recognition or loss of revenues; — loss of market share; and — failure to achieve market acceptance (brand recognition). The complexities of the implementation of our products involve additional risks of performance failure and substantial delays. Because our customer base consists of a relatively limited number of users, the harm to our reputation that could result from product defects or implementation errors could be especially damaging. This could seriously harm our business. A securities class action lawsuit against us could harm our business. A shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in September 2004 against us, Team Software Industries Ltd., which was then our principal shareholder, and certain of our executive officers. The lawsuit alleges that material misrepresentations and omissions concerning our operations and performance artificially inflated our stock price, causing damages to investors. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint which motion was granted by an opinion on October 2006. The opinion dismissed the amended and consolidated complaint but granted plaintiff the right to file a second amended and consolidated complaint. The second amended and consolidated complaint was filed on November 2006. We filed a motion to dismiss the second amended and consolidated complaint on January 2007. Based on our review of the second amended and consolidated complaint, we believe that the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the action. However, this purported class action is at an early stage and we cannot predict the outcome of this dispute. In the event of an unfavorable resolution, we may be required to pay damages and other costs in excess of the amounts covered by our insurance. In addition, the defense of this action may divert the attention of some of our management from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, this action could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in our ongoing lawsuit with a former major customer. In November 2002, we received a letter from a major customer notifying us of the termination of an agreement for the supply by us of a Manager of Managers, or MOM system, and its intention to call the 1 million British pound performance bond issued by a bank on our behalf under the agreement. We believe that the customer terminated the agreement unlawfully, and in violation of the termination provisions set out in the agreement. We filed an application in an English court on November 2002, requesting an injunction to prevent the customer from calling the bond. On January 2003, an order was issued denying our request for the injunction to continue, on a number of grounds, including that our submissions were fact-based and related to the merits of the termination and not the procedural validity of the termination or the conformity of the written notice with the requirements of the agreement. Because we believe that the termination of the agreement was unlawful, court proceedings were commenced (as part of the injunction proceedings) claiming damages for the customer’s wrongful repudiation of the agreement. Our management believes, in light of the facts surrounding our relationship with this customer, and following consultations with legal counsel, that we have reasonably good prospects of establishing that the customer was not entitled to terminate the agreement and by its conduct repudiated the agreement. The claim and particulars were served on the customer in December 2005 asking the court to award us approximately £10.5 million (GBP). In March 2006 we were served with the customer’s defense and a£12.4 million (GBP) counterclaim. The trial is expected to take place in London in October 2007. We can not assure you regarding the outcome of this proceeding. 14 We have not yet completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . We are considered a “non-accelerated filer” under applicable SEC rules. As such, we are required to comply with internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the following manner: reporting by management under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for thefiscal year ending on December 31, 2007 and attestation by our auditors under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We have begun to evaluate whether our existing internal control over financial reporting systems is compliant with Section 404. As a result of this evaluation, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context, additional commitment of management’s time and may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order to achieve compliance with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal control is found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditor. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel could harm our results of operations. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel, and our principal offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence and hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries. The establishment in early 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. In July 2006, an armed conflict has took place between Israel and Hezbollah, an Islamic movement based in Lebanon, which included the firing of multiple rockets by Hezbollah throughout northern Israel as well as retaliatory attacks by Israel throughout Lebanon. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, may hinder Israel’s international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where we can sell our products. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the recent increase in hostilities. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date; however, we can give no assurance that it will have no such effect in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic conditions in Israel could adversely affect our operations. The rate of inflation in Israel may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. The majority of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars or are U.S. dollar-linked, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally the rent for our facilities in Israel and salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. Even if we perform hedging transactions, they may not adequately protect us from the effects of inflation in Israel. The tax benefits we currently receive require us to meet several conditions, which we may fail to satisfy. Our investment programs were granted the status of an approved enterprise under Israel’s Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investments Law. An approved enterprise is eligible for tax benefits on taxable income derived from its approved enterprise programs. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. This could harm our business and our profitability. 15 Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We were obligated to pay royalties with respect to revenues derived from from products developed with the grants received. As of December 31, 2006, we did not pay or accrue any royalties to the Chief Scientist. However, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees because of military service. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Any disruption in our operations as the result of military service by key personnel could harm our business. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Goldfarb, Levy, Eran, Meiri & Co., that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — The judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. 16 Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or other business combination. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See Item 10B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” We may be required to pay additional taxes relating to certain relocation expenses. We have assessed that a tax exposure contingency may exist with regard to relocation expenses of certain of our subsidiaries’ employees and former employees. We cannot reasonably estimate the related amount of loss, if any, for the tax contingency. Accordingly, and based on our legal counsel’s opinion, we have not recorded an accrual for the said tax contingency. If we are required to pay additional taxes on account of this contingency, our future results may be adversely affected Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has decreased significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly since late 2002. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; — shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; — announcements concerning us or our competitors; — the introduction of new telecommunications services and new industry standards; — changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; — general market conditions, and changes in market conditions in our industry; — the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector); and — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and worldwide. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, having potentially punitive interest charges apply to those gains, and the denial of the taxation of certain dividends paid by us at the lower rates applicable to long-term capital gains. Although we do not believe that we have been a PFIC for any tax year through and including 2006, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the market value of our shares or valuing our assets, and it is difficult to make accurate determinations about these items. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances to you about our status. U.S. shareholders are urged to consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. 17 Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of March 21, 2007, we had approximately 16.0 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 6.6 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants or which are issuable upon conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of the outstanding warrants and options or Series A Preferred Shares will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares, or upon the exercise of warrants or employee options, or if the perception exists that our shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and upon terms and conditions we deem appropriate. Furthermore, as described in Item 7B – “Related Party Transactions”, certain of our shareholders have registration rights with respect to approximately 3.3 million of our ordinary shares. Upon registration and effectiveness of the registration statement covering such shares, these shares will become freely tradeable for as long as the registration statement is effective. One person beneficially owns a substantial amount of our shares and may influence our affairs. As of March 21, 2007, Shlomo Eisenberg, the former chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned 4,229,142 ordinary shares, which represents approximately 22.3% of our voting power. As a result, he may have an influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. The rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares are superior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. In December 2004, we issued 6,636,389 Series A Preferred Shares to the investors in the private placement transaction described elsewhere in this annual report. As of March 21, 2007, 2,936,389 Series A Preferred Shares remain outstanding. The preferential rights of the Series A Preferred Shares currently include, among others: — weighted-average anti-dilution protection in the event that we issue or are deemed to have issued (subject to certain exceptions) ordinary shares at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price in effect at the time of such issuance or deemed issuance, which could result in dilution of the holdings of ordinary shareholders; and — a preference in the event we are liquidated, which could result in the holders of our ordinary shares recovering a lesser amount in the event of our liquidation than they would have received had we not issued the Series A Preferred Shares. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 