ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before you invest in our securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below and in “BUSINESS,” “MD&A,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and/or prospects. Conservatorship and Related Developments Due primarily to our continued significant losses, we expect to face additional deficits in net worth, and will need to request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. It is likely that we will continue to record significant losses in future periods, which will lead us to require additional draws, as deteriorating economic conditions could cause, among other things, increased provision for credit losses and REO operations expense and additional unrealized losses on our non-agency mortgage-related securities. In addition, a variety of other factors could lead us to need additional draws in the future, including: • pursuit of public policy-oriented objectives that produce suboptimal financial returns, such as the continued use or expansion of foreclosure suspensions, loan modifications and refinancings and other foreclosure prevention efforts; • adverse changes in interest rates, the yield curve, implied volatility or mortgage-to-LIBOR OAS, which could increase realized and unrealized mark-to-fair value losses recorded in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI; • dividend obligations on the senior preferred stock; • changes in accounting practices or standards, including the implementation of proposed amendments to SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125,” or SFAS 140, and Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No., or FIN, 46 (revised December 2003), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51,” or FIN 46(R), that would require consolidation of our PC trusts in our financial statements; • potential accounting consequences of our implementation of HASP; • our inability to access the public debt markets on terms sufficient for our needs, absent support from Treasury and the Federal Reserve; 36 Freddie Mac Table of Contents • establishment of a valuation allowance for our remaining deferred tax asset; and • changes in business practices resulting from legislative and regulatory developments, such as the enactment of legislation providing bankruptcy judges with the authority to revise the terms of a mortgage, including the principal amount. To the extent we are required to make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement, our dividend obligation on the senior preferred stock would further increase. As a result of these expected losses and other factors, our cash flow from operations and earnings will likely be negative for the foreseeable future, there is significant uncertainty as to our future capital structure and long-term financial sustainability, and there are likely to be significant changes to our capital structure and business model beyond the near-term that we expect to be decided by Congress and the Executive Branch. Our obligations under the senior preferred stock will adversely affect our future financial condition. We face substantial dividend obligations on our senior preferred stock due to the draws that have been made or requested on our behalf by FHFA, which total $44.6 billion to date. Following the $30.8 billion draw under the Purchase Agreement, which we expect to receive in March 2009, our annual dividend obligation will be $4.6 billion, which is in excess of our annual net income in eight of the ten prior fiscal years. Because senior preferred dividends are cumulative and we are limited in our ability to redeem the senior preferred stock, our dividend obligation to Treasury will continue indefinitely, and there is no assurance that we will be able to pay that obligation in any future period. In addition, beginning in 2010, we are obligated to pay a quarterly commitment fee to Treasury in exchange for its continued funding commitment under the Purchase Agreement. This fee has not yet been established and could be substantial. The dividend obligation, combined with potentially substantial commitment fees payable to Treasury and limited flexibility to pay down capital draws, will have a significant adverse impact on our future financial condition and net worth, could substantially delay our return to long-term profitability, or make long-term profitability unlikely. Dividends on the senior preferred stock issued under the Purchase Agreement accrue at a rate of 10% per year or 12% per year in any quarter in which dividends are not paid in cash until all accrued dividends are paid in cash. Therefore, if we are unable to pay the anticipated future dividends in cash, we could face a continual escalation in our dividend obligation. In addition, the substantial cash dividend obligation may increase the risk that we may face increasingly negative cash flows from operations. Treasury’s funding commitment may not be sufficient to keep us in a solvent condition. Under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury has made a commitment to provide up to $100 billion in funding as needed to help us maintain a positive net worth, and on February 18, 2009, Treasury announced that it is increasing its commitment from $100 billion to $200 billion. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, the Purchase Agreement has not been amended to reflect the increase in Treasury’s commitment. In November 2008, we received an initial draw of $13.8 billion under the Purchase Agreement, and the Director of FHFA has submitted a second draw request to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement in the amount of $30.8 billion, which we expect to receive in March 2009. The amount of Treasury’s funding commitment will continue to be reduced by any amounts we receive under the commitment for future periods. If we continue to experience substantial losses in future periods or to the extent that we experience a liquidity crisis that prevents us from accessing the unsecured debt markets, this commitment may not be sufficient to keep us in solvent condition or from being placed into receivership. Thus, the announced increase in the commitment to $200 billion reduces, but does not eliminate, this risk. Factors including credit losses from our mortgage guarantee activities have had an increasingly negative impact on our cash flows from operations during 2007 and 2008. As we anticipate these trends to continue for the foreseeable future, it is likely that the company will increasingly rely upon access to the public debt markets as a source of funding for ongoing operations. Access to such public debt markets may not be available. We expect cash flows from operations to experience continued negative pressure in the near future, primarily as a result of credit losses in excess of the projected revenues generated from our investment and mortgage guarantee activities. It is also possible that substantial and increasing dividend obligations on our senior preferred stock could contribute to negative cash flows, if the company makes these dividend payments in cash. If we do not make these dividend payments in cash, the amount due increases the aggregate liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock. If the negative cash flows from operations exceed funding availability in the public debt markets, the alternative sources of cash available to us under our liquidity management and contingency plan, such as selling securities from our cash and other investments portfolio or borrowing against securities in our mortgage-related investments portfolio, may be insufficient to meet our future cash needs. In such event, the Lending Agreement (until its expiration on December 31, 2009) and Purchase Agreement may provide additional sources of cash. 37 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are in conservatorship and this is likely to affect our strategic objectives, as well as our future financial condition and results of operations. As our Conservator, FHFA possesses all of the powers of our stockholders, officers and directors. During the conservatorship, the Conservator has delegated certain authority to the Board of Directors to oversee, and management to conduct, day-to-day operations so that the company can continue to operate in the ordinary course of business. FHFA has the ability to withdraw its delegations of authority and override actions of our Board of Directors at any time. As a result, FHFA has the power to take actions without our knowledge, that could be material to investors and could significantly affect our financial performance. FHFA is also conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor. We do not know the impact on our business of FHFA’s serving as conservator of Fannie Mae. In announcing the conservatorship, the Director of FHFA stated his conclusion that Freddie Mac could not continue to operate safely and soundly and fulfill its mission without significant action. At the same time, the then Secretary of the Treasury stated that because Freddie Mac is in conservatorship, it will no longer be managed with a strategy to maximize common stockholder returns. Further, FHFA, as Conservator, has directed the company to focus on managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. At the direction of the Conservator, we have made changes to certain business practices that are designed to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves public policy and other non-financial objectives but may not contribute to our goal of managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. For example, we have cancelled previously announced price increases and have engaged in extensive foreclosure-prevention efforts. Some of these changes have increased our expenses or caused us to forego revenue opportunities. Other agencies of the U.S. government, as well as Congress, also may have an interest in the conduct of our business. As with FHFA, we do not know what actions they will request us to take. In view of the conservatorship and the reasons stated by FHFA for its establishment, it is likely that our business model and strategic objectives will continue to change, possibly significantly, including in pursuit of public policy and other non-financial objectives. Among other things, we could experience significant changes in the size, growth and characteristics of our guarantor and portfolio investment activities, and we could materially change our operational objectives, including our pricing strategy in our core mortgage guarantee business. Accordingly, our strategic and operational focus going forward may not be consistent with the investment objectives of our investors. It is possible that we will make material changes to our capital strategy and to our accounting policies, methods, and estimates. It is also possible that the company could be restructured and its statutory mission revised. In addition, we are subject to limitations under the Purchase Agreement that affect the amount of indebtedness we may incur, the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio and the circumstances in which we may pay dividends, raise capital and pay down the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock. We also have substantial dividend obligations on our senior preferred stock. These changes and other factors could have material effects on, among other things, our portfolio growth, capital, credit losses, net interest income, guarantee fee income, net deferred tax assets, and loan loss reserves, and could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In light of the significant uncertainty surrounding these changes, there can be no assurances regarding when, if ever, we will return to profitability. The conservatorship is indefinite in duration and the timing, conditions and likelihood of our emerging from conservatorship are uncertain. FHFA has stated that there is no exact time frame as to when the conservatorship may end. While the Director of FHFA has stated that he intends to terminate the conservatorship upon his determination that FHFA’s plan to restore Freddie Mac to a safe and solvent condition has been completed successfully, there can be no assurance as to the timing of the completion of such plan, that such plan will be able to be completed successfully or that, upon successful completion Freddie Mac will retain its current structure. Termination of the conservatorship also requires Treasury’s consent under the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance as to when, and under what circumstances, Treasury would give such consent. In addition to the existing conservatorship, Treasury has the ability to acquire a majority of our common stock for nominal consideration by exercising the warrant we issued to it pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Consequently, the company could effectively remain under the control of the U.S. government even if the conservatorship was ended and the voting rights of common stockholders restored. The warrant held by Treasury and the senior status of the senior preferred stock issued to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement, if the senior preferred stock has not been redeemed, also could adversely affect our ability to attract new private sector capital in the future should the company be in a position to seek such capital. Moreover, our draws under Treasury’s funding commitment and the required dividend payment on the senior preferred stock could permanently impair our ability to build independent sources of capital. 38 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our regulator may, and in some cases must, place us into receivership, which would result in the liquidation of our assets and terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter. Under the Reform Act, FHFA must place us into receivership if FHFA determines in writing that our assets are less than our obligations for a period of 60 days. FHFA has notified us that the measurement period for any mandatory receivership determination with respect to our assets and obligations would commence no earlier than the SEC public filing deadline for our quarterly or annual financial statements and would continue for 60 calendar days after that date. FHFA has also advised us that, if, during that 60-day period, we receive funds from Treasury in an amount at least equal to the deficiency amount under the Purchase Agreement, the Director of FHFA will not make a mandatory receivership determination. In addition, we could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for other reasons, including conditions that FHFA has already asserted existed at the time the Director of FHFA placed us into conservatorship. These include: a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to unsafe or unsound practices; the existence of an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business; an inability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business; a weakening of our condition due to unsafe or unsound practices or conditions; critical undercapitalization; the likelihood of losses that will deplete substantially all of our capital; or by consent. A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. The appointment of FHFA (or any other entity) as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising as a result of their status as stockholders or creditors, other than the potential ability to be paid upon our liquidation. Unlike a conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of a receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, there can be no assurance that there would be sufficient proceeds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. Only after paying the secured and unsecured claims of the company, the administrative expenses of the receiver and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. To the extent that we are placed in receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guarantee to the holders of our mortgage-related securities, they could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guarantee. We have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives that may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to maintain a positive net worth. Based on our charter, public statements from Treasury and FHFA officials and guidance from our Conservator, we have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives. These objectives include providing liquidity, stability and affordability in the mortgage market; immediately providing additional assistance to the struggling housing and mortgage markets; reducing the need to draw funds from Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement; returning to long-term profitability; and protecting the interests of the taxpayers. These objectives create conflicts in strategic and day-to-day decision making that will likely lead to suboptimal outcomes for one or more, or possibly all, of these objectives. Current portfolio investment and mortgage guarantee activities and loan modification, refinancing and foreclosure forbearance programs are intended to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves public policy and other non-financial objectives under conservatorship, but may negatively impact our financial results. We have experienced significant management changes and we may lose a significant number of valuable employees, which could increase our control risks and have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. Since September 2008, there have been numerous changes in our senior management and governance structure, including FHFA becoming our Conservator, a new Chief Executive Officer and a reconstituted Board of Directors, including a new non-executive Chairman and other changes to our senior management, such as the departures of our former Chief Financial Officer and our former Chief Business Officer and the appointment of an Acting Chief Financial Officer and Acting Principal Accounting Officer. The magnitude of these changes and the short time interval in which they have occurred add to the risks of control failures, including a failure in the effective operation of the company’s internal control over financial reporting or its disclosure controls and procedures. Control failures could result in material adverse effects on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. On March 2, 2009 we announced that David M. Moffett had notified the Chairman of the Board of Directors of his resignation from his position as Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors effective no later than March 13, 2009. John A. Koskinen has been appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer and Robert R. Glauber has been appointed interim non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective upon Mr. Moffett’s resignation. The Board of Directors is working with the Conservator to appoint a permanent Chief Executive Officer. In addition, several internal 39 Freddie Mac Table of Contents management changes have been made to fill key positions and the company continues to recruit members of its senior management team, including a Chief Operating Officer and a permanent Chief Financial Officer. It may take time for the new senior management team to be hired, particularly a new CEO, and to become sufficiently familiar with our business and each other to effectively develop and implement our business strategies. This turnover of key management positions could further harm our financial performance and results of operations. Management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by reorganizations and the need to operate under this new framework. The conservatorship and the actions taken by Treasury and the Conservator to date, or that may be taken by them or other government agencies in the future, may have an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of senior executives and others in management. Limitations on executive compensation may also adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain well-qualified employees. If we lose a significant number of employees and are not able to quickly recruit and train new employees, it could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred stockholders. No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our stockholders are suspended during the conservatorship. During the conservatorship, our common stockholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters unless the Conservator delegates this authority to them. Dividends have been eliminated. The Conservator has eliminated common and preferred stock dividends (other than dividends on the senior preferred stock) during the conservatorship. In addition, under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred stockholders (other than on the senior preferred stock) without the consent of Treasury, regardless of whether or not we are in conservatorship. Even if we were not under conservatorship, our current financial condition would preclude us from paying such dividends under applicable state law and existing capital regulations. No longer managed to maximize stockholder returns. According to a statement made by the then Secretary of the Treasury on September 7, 2008, because we are in conservatorship, we will no longer be managed with a strategy to maximize stockholder returns. Liquidation preference of senior preferred stock. The senior preferred stock ranks prior to our common stock and all other series of our preferred stock, as well as any capital stock we issue in the future, as to both dividends and distributions upon liquidation. Accordingly, if we are liquidated, Treasury, as holder of the senior preferred stock, is entitled to its then-current liquidation preference, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends, before any distribution is made to the holders of our common stock or other preferred stock. The Director of FHFA has submitted a draw request to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement in the amount of $30.8 billion, which we expect to receive in March 2009. When this draw is received, the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock will increase from $1.0 billion as of September 8, 2008 to $45.6 billion. The liquidation preference will increase further if we make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement, if we do not pay dividends owed on the senior preferred stock or if we do not pay the quarterly commitment fee under the Purchase Agreement. If we are liquidated, there may not be sufficient funds remaining after payment of amounts to our creditors and to Treasury as holder of the senior preferred stock to make any distribution to holders of our common stock and other preferred stock. Warrant may substantially dilute investment of current stockholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common stockholders will be substantially diluted. It is possible that stockholders, other than Treasury, will not own more than 20.1% of our total common stock for the duration of our existence. Market price and liquidity of our common and preferred stock has substantially declined and may decline further. Prior to our entry into conservatorship, the market price for our common stock declined substantially. After our entry into conservatorship, the market price of our common stock continued to decline (to less than $1 per share) and the investments of our common and preferred stockholders have lost substantial value which they may never recover. The conservatorship has no specified termination date. We do not know when or how the conservatorship will be terminated, and if or when the rights and powers of our stockholders, including the voting powers of our common stockholders, will be restored. Moreover, even if the conservatorship is terminated, by their terms, we remain subject to the Purchase Agreement, senior preferred stock and warrant. 40 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Competitive and Market Risks The future growth of our mortgage-related investments portfolio is significantly limited under the Purchase Agreement and by FHFA regulation, which will result in greater reliance on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. Under the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, our mortgage-related investments portfolio as of December 31, 2009 may not exceed $900 billion, and must decline by 10% per year thereafter until it reaches $250 billion. In addition, under the Purchase Agreement, without the prior consent of Treasury, we may not increase our total indebtedness above a specified limit or become liable for any subordinated indebtedness. These limitations will reduce the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio business and require us to place greater emphasis on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. However, under conservatorship, our ability to generate revenue through guarantee activities may be limited, as we may be required to adopt business practices that provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves public policy and other non-financial objectives, but that may negatively impact our financial results. The cap on our mortgage-related investments portfolio may force us to sell mortgage assets at unattractive prices and may prevent us from purchasing mortgage assets at attractive prices. We are subject to mortgage credit risks; increased credit costs related to these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. We are exposed to mortgage credit risk within our single-family mortgage portfolio, which includes mortgage loans, PCs, Structured Securities and other mortgage guarantees we have issued in our guarantee business. Mortgage credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to make timely payments on a mortgage or an issuer will fail to make timely payments on a security we own or guarantee, exposing us to the risk of credit losses and credit-related expenses. Factors that affect the level of our mortgage credit risk include the credit profile of the borrower, the features of the mortgage loan, the type of property securing the mortgage, and local and regional economic conditions, including regional increases in unemployment rates and falling home prices. While mortgage interest rates have decreased since the middle of 2008, many borrowers may not be able to refinance into lower interest mortgages due to substantial declines in home values and market uncertainty. Therefore, there can be no assurance that a further decrease in mortgage interest rates or efforts to refinance mortgages pursuant to the HASP will result in a decrease in our overall mortgage credit risk. Alt-A loans made up approximately 10% and 11% of our single-family mortgage portfolio in 2008 and 2007, respectively, but accounted for approximately 50% and 18% of our credit losses in 2008 and 2007, respectively. See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio — Higher Risk Components of our Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio” for information on our classification of loans and asset-backed mortgage-related securities as Alt-A. Interest-only loans and option ARM loans made up approximately 10% of our single-family mortgage portfolio in both 2008 and 2007. Our purchases of these mortgages and issuances of guarantees of them expose us to greater credit risks than do other types of mortgages. Our holdings of these loan groups are concentrated in the West region where home prices have experienced steep declines, accounting for 45% of our credit losses in 2008. We have also experienced increases in delinquency rates for prime mortgages, due to deteriorating housing prices and increasing unemployment rates. In addition, for a significant percentage of the mortgages we purchase, we agreed to permit our seller/servicers to underwrite the loans using alternative automated underwriting systems. These alternative systems may use different standards than our own, including, in some cases, lower standards with respect to borrower credit characteristics. Those differences may increase our credit risk and may result in increases in credit losses. Furthermore, due to our relative lack of experience in the jumbo mortgage market, purchases pursuant to the high-cost conforming loan limits may also expose us to greater credit risks. We are exposed to increased credit risk related to subprime, Alt-A and MTA loans that back our non-agency mortgage-related securities investments. We have invested in non-agency mortgage-related securities that are backed by subprime, Alt-A and Moving Treasury Average, or MTA, loans, which are a type of option ARM. Our non-agency mortgage-related securities backed by subprime and Alt-A and other loans do not include a significant amount of option ARMs. Throughout 2008 and continuing into 2009, mortgage loan delinquencies and credit losses in the U.S. mortgage market have substantially increased, particularly in the subprime, Alt-A and MTA sectors of the residential mortgage market. In addition, home prices have continued to decline, after extended periods during which home prices appreciated. If delinquency and loss rates on subprime, Alt-A and MTA loans continue to increase, or there is a further decline in home prices, we could experience additional GAAP losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in these non-agency mortgage-related securities. If Congress enacts legislation allowing bankruptcy judges to reduce the loan balance of mortgage loans, this could also result in additional other-than-temporary impairments. In addition, the fair value of these investments has declined and may decline further due to additional ratings downgrades or market events. Any credit enhancements covering these securities, including subordination, may not prevent us from incurring losses. These factors could negatively affect our financial position and net 41 Freddie Mac Table of Contents worth. See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio” for information about the credit ratings for these securities and the extent to which these securities have been downgraded. The credit losses we experience in future periods as a result of the housing and economic crisis are likely to be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. Our loan loss reserves, as reflected on our balance sheet, do not reflect our estimate of the future credit losses inherent in our single-family and multifamily mortgage loans, including those underlying our financial guarantees. Rather, pursuant to GAAP, our reserves only reflect probable losses we believe we have already incurred as of the balance sheet date. Because of the housing and economic crisis, there is significant uncertainty regarding the full extent of future credit losses. The credit losses we experience in future periods will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. A continued decline in U.S. home prices or other changes in the U.S. housing market could negatively impact our business and increase our losses. Throughout 2008, the U.S. housing market experienced significant adverse trends, including accelerating price depreciation, rising delinquency and default rates and high unemployment. These conditions led to significant increases in our loan delinquencies and credit losses and higher provisioning for loan losses, all of which have adversely affected our results of operations. We expect that home prices will experience significant further deterioration in 2009, which could result in a continued increase in delinquencies or defaults and a level of credit-related losses higher than our expectations when our guarantees were issued, which could significantly increase our losses. For more information, see “MD&A — CREDIT RISKS.” Government programs designed to halt the decline in the U.S. housing market, such as the HASP, may fail. Our business volumes are closely tied to the rate of growth in total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. The rate of growth in total residential mortgage debt was (0.3%) in 2008 compared to 7.2% in 2007. If the rate of growth in total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt were to continue to decline, there could be fewer mortgage loans available for us to purchase, and we could face more competition to purchase a smaller number of loans. Apartment market fundamentals began to deteriorate more rapidly in the second half of 2008, due to increased vacancy rates, declining rent levels and a weakening employment market. Given the significant weakness currently being experienced in the U.S. economy, it is likely that apartment fundamentals will continue to deteriorate during 2009, which could cause us to incur significant credit and other losses relating to our multifamily activities. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if mortgage seller/servicers fail to perform their obligations to service loans in our single-family mortgage portfolio as well as to repurchase loans sold to us in breach of representations and warranties. Our seller/servicers have a significant role in servicing loans in our single-family mortgage portfolio, which includes an active role in our loss mitigation efforts. We also require seller/servicers to make certain representations and warranties regarding the loans they sell to us. If loans are sold to us in breach of those representations and warranties, we have the contractual right to require the seller/servicer to repurchase those loans from us. Our seller/servicer counterparties may fail to perform their obligation to service loans in our single-family mortgage portfolio as well as to repurchase loans, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risk of such a failure has increased as deteriorating market conditions have affected the liquidity and financial condition of many of our seller/servicers, including some of our largest seller/servicers. If a servicer is unable to fulfill its repurchase or other responsibilities, we may be unable to sell the applicable servicing rights to a successor servicer and recover, from the sale proceeds, amounts owed to us by the defaulting servicer. Recent market turmoil has disrupted the market for mortgage servicing rights, which increases the risk that we may be unable to sell such rights or may not receive a sufficient price for them. The inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our loss mitigation plans, a lower realized rate of seller/servicer repurchases or default rates and severity that exceed our current projections could cause our losses to be significantly higher than those currently estimated. See “MD&A — CREDIT RISKS — Institutional Credit Risk — Mortgage Seller/Servicers” for additional information on our institutional credit risk related to our mortgage seller/servicers. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of our derivative and other counterparties. Due to market events in the second half of 2008, some of our derivative and other counterparties have experienced various degrees of financial distress, including liquidity constraints, credit downgrades and bankruptcy. Our ten largest derivative counterparties for 2008 represented approximately 69% of the total notional amount of our derivative portfolio. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of these derivative and other counterparties in the event that they fail to meet their obligations to us. For example, we may incur losses if collateral 42 Freddie Mac Table of Contents held by us cannot be liquidated at prices that are sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Our exposure to derivatives counterparties has increased significantly since July 2008, as we have experienced significant deterioration in our access to the unsecured medium- and long-term debt markets, and have had to rely increasingly upon derivatives to manage our interest-rate risk. This strategy may increase the volatility of our GAAP results through mark-to-fair value impacts on our pay-fixed swaps and other derivatives. In addition, our ability to engage in routine derivatives, funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide disruptions in which it may be difficult for us to find acceptable counterparties for such transactions. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business and our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more of our institutional counterparties is unable to meet their obligations to us. We face the risk that one or more of the institutional counterparties that has entered into a business contract or arrangement with us may fail to meet its obligations. We face similar risks with respect to contracts or arrangements we enter into on behalf of the securitization trusts. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with: • mortgage insurers; • mortgage seller/servicers; • issuers, guarantors or third party providers of credit enhancements (including bond insurers); • mortgage investors; • multifamily mortgage guarantors; • issuers, guarantors and insurers of investments held in both our mortgage-related investments portfolio and our cash and other investments portfolio; and • derivatives counterparties. In some cases, our business with institutional counterparties is concentrated. A significant failure by a major institutional counterparty could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage-related investments portfolio, cash and other investments portfolio, derivative portfolio or credit guarantee activities. See “NOTE 18: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. For 2008, our ten largest mortgage seller/servicers represented approximately 84% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume. We are exposed to the risk that we could lose purchase volume to the extent these arrangements are terminated or modified and not replaced from other lenders. Some of our counterparties also may become subject to serious liquidity problems affecting, either temporarily or permanently, their businesses, which may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Challenging market conditions have adversely affected and are expected to continue to adversely affect the liquidity and financial condition of a number of our counterparties, including some seller/servicers, mortgage insurers and bond insurers. Some of our largest seller/servicers have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints, and certain large lenders have failed. A default by a counterparty with significant obligations to us could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations efficiently and at cost-effective rates, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations or our financial condition. Many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. Accordingly, if one of these counterparties were to become insolvent or otherwise default on its obligations to us, it could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways. We are also exposed to risk relating to the potential insolvency or non-performance of mortgage insurers and bond insurers. Most of our mortgage insurer and bond insurer counterparties have experienced ratings downgrades during 2008 and some in early 2009. To date, none of these counterparties has failed to meet its obligations to us; however we recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses during 2008 on securities covered by our bond insurers due to concerns over whether or not they will meet our future claims. At December 31, 2008, our top three mortgage insurers; Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corp, Radian Guaranty Inc. and Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation, each accounted for more than 10% of our overall mortgage insurance coverage and collectively represented approximately 65% of our overall mortgage insurance coverage. As of December 31, 2008, our top four bond insurers; Ambac Assurance Corporation, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, MBIA Insurance Corp., and Financial Security Assurance Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of our overall bond insurance coverage (including secondary policies), and collectively represented approximately 90% of our bond insurance coverage. See “MD&A — CREDIT RISKS — Institutional Credit Risk” for additional information regarding our credit risks to our counterparties and how we seek to manage them, and recent consolidation among some of our institutional counterparties. 43 Freddie Mac Table of Contents The loss of business volume from key lenders could result in a decline in our market share and revenues. Our business depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans. We purchase a significant percentage of our single-family mortgages from several large mortgage originators. During 2008 and 2007, approximately 84% and 79%, respectively, of our guaranteed mortgage securities issuances originated from purchase volume associated with our ten largest customers. Three of our single-family customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our mortgage securitization volume for 2008. We enter into mortgage purchase volume commitments with many of our customers that provide for a specified dollar amount or minimum level of mortgage volume that these customers will deliver to us. Therefore, we face the risk that we will not be able to enter into a new commitment with a key customer following the expiration of the existing commitment. In July 2008, Bank of America Corporation completed its acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp. In September 2008, JPMorgan Chase & Co. acquired all deposits, assets and certain liabilities of Washington Mutual. In December 2008, Wells Fargo & Co. completed its merger with Wachovia Corporation. These companies accounted for approximately 20%, 15% and 22%, respectively, of our securitization volume on a combined basis in 2008. The mortgage industry has been consolidating and a decreasing number of large lenders originate most single-family mortgages. The loss of business from any one of our major lenders could adversely affect our market share, our revenues and the credit loss performance of our single-family mortgage portfolio. Changes in general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may continue to be adversely affected by changes in general business and economic conditions, including changes in the international markets for our investments or our mortgage-related and debt securities. These conditions include employment rates, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, the strength of the U.S. financial markets and national economy and the local economies in which we conduct business, and the economies of other countries that purchase our mortgage-related and debt securities. In addition, if the current recession continues to negatively impact national and regional economic conditions, we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses which will likely increase our losses in future periods and will adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The mortgage credit markets experienced very difficult conditions and volatility during 2008 which have continued in 2009. The deteriorating conditions in these markets resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity within the mortgage industry, causing disruptions to normal operations of major mortgage originators, including some of our largest customers, and have resulted in the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions. These conditions also resulted in less liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency and are expected to contribute to further consolidation within the financial services industry. We operate in these markets and continue to be subject to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations due to our activities involving securities, mortgages, derivatives and other mortgage commitments with our customers. Competition from banking and non-banking companies may harm our business. Competition in the secondary mortgage market combined with a decreased rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding may make it more difficult for us to purchase mortgages. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressures may make our products less attractive in the market and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, under a recent FDIC program, many of our bank competitors are currently able to issue senior, short-term unsecured debt that is guaranteed by the U.S. government. This development will likely decrease their funding costs, and increase their ability to compete with us. We face limited availability of financing, increased funding costs and uncertainty in our securitization financing; our ability to obtain funding would be adversely affected by the expiration of the Lending Agreement and other government programs. The amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial institutions and the capital markets, directly impacts our interest expense and results of operations and can therefore affect our ability to grow our assets. The support of Treasury and the Federal Reserve to date has supported our access to debt funding on terms sufficient for our needs. In addition, a number of other factors could make such financing more difficult to obtain, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, both domestically and internationally (where funding transactions may be on terms more or less favorable than in the U.S.), including: • the impact of the current liquidity crisis; • decreasing demand for our debt securities; and • increasing competition for debt funding from other debt issuers. Government Programs On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced a program to purchase up to $100 billion of direct obligations of Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and the FHLBs. The Federal Reserve will purchase these direct obligations from primary 44 Freddie Mac Table of Contents dealers. As of February 25, 2009, according to information provided by the Federal Reserve, it held $38.3 billion under this program, including $17.3 billion of our direct obligations. Our access to funding and funding costs would be significantly adversely affected after the program has been completed. We will not be able to obtain funds under the Lending Agreement after December 31, 2009. Therefore, after such date, we will not have a substantial liquidity backstop available to us (other than Treasury’s ability to purchase up to $2.25 billion of our obligations under its permanent authority) if we are unable to obtain funding from issuances of debt or other conventional sources. Our long-term liquidity contingency strategy involves maintaining alternative sources of liquidity to allow normal operations without relying upon the issuance of debt. However, under current conditions, it is unlikely that we will be able to satisfy these liquidity needs through conventional sources. Consequently, our long-term liquidity contingency strategy is currently dependent on the extension of the Lending Agreement beyond December 31, 2009. In addition, our funding costs may increase if we borrow under the Lending Agreement. Based on a Fact Sheet published by Treasury on September 7, 2008, the interest rate we are likely to be charged for loans under the Lending Agreement may be significantly higher than the rates we have historically achieved through the sale of unsecured debt. Therefore, use of this facility in significant amounts could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Treasury is not obligated under the Lending Agreement to make any loans to us, and thus we may not be able to rely on this facility in the event of a liquidity crisis. Further, the terms of any borrowings will be determined by Treasury, and may be more restrictive than loans we could obtain from other sources. Current Liquidity Crisis Our ability to obtain funding in the public debt markets or by pledging mortgage-related securities as collateral to other financial institutions has been adversely affected by the current liquidity crisis and could cease or change rapidly and the cost of the available funding could increase significantly due to changes in market confidence. Since July 2008, we have experienced significant deterioration in our access to the unsecured medium- and long-term debt markets, and have relied increasingly on short-term debt to fund our purchases of mortgage assets and to refinance maturing debt. As a result, we have been required to refinance our debt on a more frequent basis, exposing us to an increased risk of insufficient demand and adverse credit market conditions. This has also caused us to increase our use of pay-fixed swaps to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. Thus, if our access to the derivative markets were disrupted, our business results would be adversely affected. It is unclear if or when these market conditions will improve, allowing us increased access to the longer-term debt markets that is not based on support from Treasury and the Federal Reserve. During 2008, the ratings on our non-agency mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A, subprime and MTA loans decreased, limiting their availability as a significant source of liquidity for us through sales or use as collateral in secured lending transactions. In addition, adverse market conditions have negatively impacted our ability to enter into secured lending transactions using agency mortgage-related securities as collateral. These trends are likely to continue in the future. Demand for Debt Funding The willingness of domestic and foreign investors to purchase and hold our debt securities can be influenced by many factors, including perceptions of the extent of U.S. government support for our business, changes in the world economy, changes in foreign-currency exchange rates, regulatory and political factors, as well as the availability of and preferences for other investments. If investors were to divest their holdings or reduce their purchases of our debt securities, our funding costs could increase. We have experienced decreased demand for our long-term debt, and have relied more on the Federal Reserve as an active purchaser of such debt in the secondary market. The willingness of investors to purchase or hold our debt securities, and any changes to such willingness, may materially affect our liquidity, our business and results of operations. Competition for Debt Funding We compete for low-cost debt funding with Fannie Mae, the FHLBs and other institutions that are able to issue debt that is guaranteed by the U.S. government. Competition for debt funding from these entities can vary with changes in economic, financial market and regulatory environments. Increased competition for low-cost debt funding may result in a higher cost to finance our business, which could negatively affect our financial results. An inability to issue debt securities at attractive rates in amounts sufficient to fund our business activities and meet our obligations could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. See “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Debt Securities” for a more detailed description of our debt issuance programs. Lines of Credit We maintain secured intraday lines of credit to provide additional intraday liquidity to fund our activities through the Fedwire system. These lines of credit may require us to post collateral to third parties. In certain limited circumstances, these secured counterparties may be able to repledge the collateral underlying our financing without our consent. In addition, because these secured intraday lines of credit are uncommitted, we may not be able to continue to draw on them if and when needed. 45 Freddie Mac Table of Contents PCs and Structured Securities Our PCs and Structured Securities are also an integral part of our mortgage purchase program and any decline in the price performance of or demand for our PCs could have an adverse effect on our securitization activities. There is a risk that our PC and Structured Securities support activities may not be sufficient to support the liquidity and depth of the market for PCs. Our investment returns may be adversely affected by Treasury and Federal Reserve programs to purchase GSE mortgage-related securities. Treasury and the Federal Reserve have both implemented programs to purchase GSE mortgage-related securities. Treasury’s authority to purchase these securities expires on December 31, 2009. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it expects to complete its purchases of mortgage-related securities by the end of the second quarter of 2009. The overall market for our mortgage-related securities and the returns available to us on our investments in agency mortgage-related securities may be adversely affected by these programs if the extent and duration of purchases reduces the OAS we can obtain on purchases for our mortgage-related investments portfolio. A reduction in the credit ratings for our debt could adversely affect our liquidity. Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations play an important role in determining, by means of the ratings they assign to issuers and their debt, the availability and cost of debt funding. We currently receive ratings from three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for our unsecured borrowings. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. Actions by governmental entities or others, additional GAAP losses, additional draws under the Purchase Agreement and other factors could adversely affect the credit ratings on our debt. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, or the supply or cost of debt financing available to us. A significant increase in our borrowing costs could cause us to sustain additional losses or impair our liquidity by requiring us to seek other sources of financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We rely on representations and warranties by seller/servicers about the characteristics of the single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize, and we do not independently verify most of the borrower information that is provided to us. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about a mortgage loan. We may experience significant financial losses and reputational damage as a result of mortgage fraud. The value of mortgage-related securities guaranteed by us and held in our mortgage-related investments portfolio may decline if we did not or were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish. We classify the mortgage-related securities in our mortgage-related investments portfolio as either available-for-sale or trading, and account for them at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. A substantial portion of the mortgage-related securities in our mortgage-related investments portfolio are securities guaranteed by us. Our valuation of these securities is consistent with GAAP and the legal structure of the guarantee transaction, which includes the Freddie Mac guarantee to the securitization trust. The valuation of our guaranteed mortgage securities necessarily reflects investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee and the liquidity that our guarantee provides. If we did not or were unable to perform under our guarantee, or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish, the value of our guaranteed securities may decline, thereby reducing the value of the securities reported on our consolidated balance sheets and our ability to sell or otherwise use these securities for liquidity purposes, and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and fair value of net assets. Our investment activities and credit guarantee activities expose us to interest-rate and other market risks and credit risks. Changes in interest rates, up or down, could adversely affect our net interest yield. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, either can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest yield to expand or compress. For example, due to the timing of maturities or rate reset dates on variable-rate instruments, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets. This rate change could cause our net interest yield to compress until the effect of the increase is fully reflected in asset yields. Changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest yield. Changes in interest rates could increase our GAAP net loss or deficit in stockholders’ equity materially, especially if actual conditions vary considerably from our expectations. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than estimated or the slope of the yield curve varies other than as expected, we may incur significant losses. Changes in interest rates may also affect prepayment assumptions, thus potentially impacting the fair value of our assets, including investments in our 46 Freddie Mac Table of Contents mortgage-related investments portfolio, our derivative portfolio and our guarantee asset. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. An increased likelihood of prepayment on the mortgages underlying our mortgage-related securities may adversely impact the performance of these securities and the valuation of our guarantee asset. An increased likelihood of prepayment on the mortgage loans we hold may also negatively impact the performance of our mortgage-related investments portfolio. In 2008, interest rate declines were a primary contributor to losses on guarantee asset and derivative losses of $22 billion. Interest rates can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including changes in the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, such as the Federal Reserve. Federal Reserve policies directly and indirectly influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. One of our primary strategies for managing interest-rate risk is the issuance of a broad range of callable and non-callable debt instruments. Due to deteriorating market conditions beginning in July 2008, we have not been able to follow this strategy consistently, as our ability to issue long-term and callable debt has been extremely limited. We have been forced to rely on increased use of short-term debt and derivative instruments. However the availability of derivative financial instruments (such as options and interest-rate and foreign-currency swaps) from acceptable counterparties of the types and in the quantities needed may be limited, particularly in the current environment, which could also adversely affect our ability to effectively manage the risks related to our investment funding. Thus, our strategies and efforts to manage our exposures to these risks may not be as effective as they have been in the past. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” for a description of the types of market risks to which we are exposed and how we seek to manage those risks. Changes in OAS could materially impact our fair value of net assets and affect future results of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and fair value of net assets. OAS is an estimate of the yield spread between a given security and an agency debt yield curve. The OAS between the mortgage and agency debt sectors can significantly affect the fair value of our net assets. The fair value impact of changes in OAS for a given period represents an estimate of the net unrealized increase or decrease in the fair value of net assets arising from net fluctuations in OAS during that period. We do not attempt to hedge or actively manage the impact of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. Changes in market conditions, including changes in interest rates, may cause fluctuations in the OAS. A widening of the OAS on a given asset typically causes a decline in the current fair value of that asset, may cause significant mark-to-fair value losses, and may adversely affect our financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit), but may increase the number of attractive opportunities to purchase new assets for our mortgage-related investments portfolio. Conversely, a narrowing or tightening of the OAS typically causes an increase in the current fair value of that asset, but may reduce the number of attractive opportunities to purchase new assets for our mortgage-related investments portfolio. Consequently, a tightening of the OAS may adversely affect our future financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit). See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED FAIR VALUE BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Discussion of Fair Value Results” for a more detailed description of the impacts of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. Negative publicity causing damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results or capital. Reputation risk, or the risk to our financial results and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers or otherwise impair our customer relationships, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, impede our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, hinder our business prospects or adversely impact the trading price of our securities. Perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors or the financial services and mortgage industries as a whole, particularly as they relate to the current economic crisis, may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputation impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may impair market confidence or investor confidence in our business operations as well. In addition, negative publicity could expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences, including greater regulatory scrutiny or adverse regulatory or legislative changes. These adverse consequences could result from perceptions concerning our activities and role in addressing the mortgage market crisis or our actual or alleged action or failure to act in any number of activities, including corporate governance, regulatory compliance, financial reporting and disclosure, purchases of products perceived to be predatory, safeguarding or using nonpublic personal information, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to our actual or alleged conduct. Business and Operational Risks Programs to reduce foreclosures, modify loan terms and refinance mortgages may fail to mitigate our credit losses and may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Loss mitigation activities are a key component of our strategy for managing and resolving troubled assets and lowering credit losses. However, there can be no assurance that any of our loss mitigation strategies will be successful and that credit losses will not escalate. 47 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Due to the higher rates of delinquency in 2008, we have significantly increased our use of loss mitigation programs. Working with our Conservator, we are increasing loan modification and refinancing programs. For example, effective December 15, 2008, we directed our servicers to begin offering fast-track loan modifications to certain troubled borrowers. We also suspended all foreclosure sales involving occupied single family and 2-4 unit properties with Freddie Mac-owned mortgages from November 26, 2008 through January 31, 2009 and from February 14, 2009 through March 6, 2009 to allow more borrowers to take advantage of the loan modification programs. We also suspended evictions on REO properties from November 26, 2008 through April 1, 2009. Various states have initiated programs to help troubled borrowers find alternatives to foreclosure. The success of any of our loss mitigation programs may be constrained by the difficulty in contacting borrowers, the inability of many borrowers to qualify for the programs, and servicers’ difficulties in processing high volumes of applications. Loss mitigation programs can increase our expenses, due to the costs associated with contacting eligible borrowers and processing loan modifications. These programs may result in us making significant concessions to delinquent borrowers. Even if we are able to modify a loan, there can be no assurance that the loan will not return to delinquent status, due to the severity of economic conditions affecting delinquent borrowers. Pursuant to the HASP, we expect that we and our servicers will be involved in significant loan modification and refinancing activity with respect to mortgages we own or guarantee to reduce interest rates for many borrowers. However, notwithstanding such reduced interest rates, borrowers may continue to default on their loans, due to the stressful economic conditions. Thus, the loan modification and refinancing activity may fail to significantly reduce credit losses. In addition, our role as compliance agent for the HASP is expected to be substantial, requiring significant levels of internal resources and management attention, which may therefore be shifted away from current corporate initiatives. Our seller/servicers have a key role in the success of our loss mitigation activities. The significant increases in delinquent loan volume and the deteriorating conditions of the mortgage market during 2008 placed a strain on the loss mitigation resources of many of our seller/servicers. A decline in the performance of any seller/servicers in mitigation efforts could result in missed opportunities for successful loan modifications and an increase in our credit losses. Depending on the type of loss mitigation activities we pursue, those activities could result in accelerating or slowing prepayments on our PCs or Structured Securities, either of which could negatively affect the pricing of such PCs or Structured Securities. We may experience further write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including our investment securities, net deferred tax assets, REO properties, mortgage loans or investments in LIHTC partnerships, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We have experienced a significant increase in losses and write-downs relating to our assets during 2008, including significant declines in market value, impairments of our investment securities, market-based write-downs of REO properties, losses on non-performing loans purchased out of PC pools, and to a much lesser extent losses on our investments in LIHTC partnerships and other assets. A substantial portion of our impairment losses and write-downs relate to our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities backed by subprime, Alt-A and MTA mortgage loans. We also incurred significant losses during 2008 relating to the non-mortgage investment securities in our cash and other investments portfolio, primarily as a result of a substantial decline in the market value of these assets due to the financial market crisis. The fair value of the investment securities we hold may be further adversely affected by continued deterioration in the housing and financial markets, additional ratings downgrades or other events. Due to the continued deterioration in the housing and financial markets, we may experience additional write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including those that are currently AAA-rated, and the fair values of our assets may continue to decline. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In addition, many of these assets do not trade in a liquid secondary market and the size of our holdings relative to normal market activity are such that, if we were to attempt to sell a significant quantity of assets, the market pricing in such markets could be significantly disrupted. Therefore, if we were to sell any of these assets, the price we ultimately realize may be materially lower than the value at which we carry these assets on our consolidated balance sheets. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a $14.1 billion partial valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an additional $8.3 billion valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2008, we determined that a valuation allowance is not necessary for the remainder of our $15.4 billion of deferred tax asset, which are dependent upon our intent and ability to hold available-for-sale debt securities until the recovery of unrealized losses that are deemed to be temporary. The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be affected by the Conservator, and legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure and mission of the company. The uncertainty of these developments, as well as future legislative actions, could materially affect our operations, which could in turn affect our ability or intent to hold investments until the recovery of any temporary unrealized losses. If future events significantly alter our current outlook, a valuation allowance may need to be established for the remaining deferred tax asset. 48 Freddie Mac Table of Contents If we are unable to recruit, retain and engage employees with the necessary skills, our ability to conduct our business activities effectively during the conservatorship may be adversely affected. Our ability to recruit, retain and engage employees with the necessary skills to conduct our business may be adversely affected by the conservatorship, the uncertainty regarding its duration and the potential for future legislative or regulatory actions that could significantly affect our status as a GSE and our role in the secondary mortgage market. For example, our Chief Executive Officer recently resigned, effective no later than March 13, 2009. In addition, new statutory and regulatory requirements restricting executive compensation at institutions that have received federal financial assistance, even if not expressly applicable to us, may be interpreted as limiting the compensation that we are able to provide to our executive officers and other employees. Although we have established a retention program providing for cash awards that are designed to help retain key employees, we are not currently in a position to offer employees financial incentives that are equity-based and, as a result of this and other factors relating to the conservatorship that may affect our attractiveness as an employer, we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to other potential employers. Accordingly, we may not be able to retain or replace executives or other employees with key skills and our ability to conduct our business effectively could be adversely affected. The price and trading liquidity of our common stock and our NYSE-listed issues of preferred stock may be adversely affected if those securities are delisted from the NYSE. If we do not satisfy the minimum share price, corporate governance and other requirements of the continued listing standards of the NYSE, our common stock and NYSE-listed issues of preferred stock could be delisted from the NYSE. On November 17, 2008, we received a notice from the NYSE that we had failed to satisfy the NYSE’s minimum share price standards for continued listing of our common stock. During the consecutive 30 trading-day period ended November 17, 2008, the average closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was less than $1.00 per share, and it has remained below $1.00 per share since that date. Under an NYSE rule change effective as of February 26, 2009, the minimum price listing standard has been suspended until June 30, 2009. If we do not regain compliance during the suspension period, the six-month compliance period that began on November 17, 2008 will recommence and we will have the remaining balance of that period to meet the standard. If we are not able to cure the price deficiency, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE, and this would also likely result in the delisting of our NYSE-listed preferred stock. The delisting of our common stock or NYSE-listed preferred stock would require any trading in these securities to occur in the over-the-counter market and could adversely affect the market prices and liquidity of the markets for these securities. Material weaknesses and other deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls could result in errors, affect operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results. We face continuing challenges because of deficiencies in our accounting infrastructure and controls and the operational complexities of our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had four material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, and have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008, at a reasonable level of assurance. These material weaknesses and other control deficiencies could result in errors, affect operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results. For a description of our existing material weaknesses, see “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES — Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” There are a number of factors that may impede our efforts to establish and maintain effective internal control and a sound accounting infrastructure, including: the nature of the conservatorship and our relationship with FHFA; the complexity of our business activities and related GAAP requirements; significant turnover in our senior management and Board of Directors; uncertainty regarding the operating effectiveness and sustainability of newly established controls; and the uncertain impacts of recent housing and credit market volatility on the reliability of our models used to develop our accounting estimates. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting will ultimately be successful. Controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, provide only reasonable assurance that material errors in our financial statements will be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting increases the risks of a material error in our reported financial results and delay in our financial reporting timeline. Depending on the nature of a failure and any required remediation, ineffective controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Delays in meeting our financial reporting obligations could affect our ability to maintain the listing of our securities on the NYSE. Ineffective controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our securities. 49 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Recent market conditions impair the reliability of the internal models we use for financial accounting and reporting purposes, to make business decisions and to manage risks, and our business could be adversely affected if those models fail to produce reliable results. We make significant use of business and financial models for financial accounting and reporting purposes and to manage risk. For example, we use models in determining the fair value of financial instruments for which independent price quotes are not available or reliable or in extrapolating third-party values to certain of our assets and liabilities. We also use models to measure and monitor our exposures to interest-rate and other market risks and credit risk. The information provided by these models is also used in making business decisions relating to strategies, initiatives, transactions and products. We use market-based information as inputs to our models. The turmoil in the housing and credit markets creates additional risk regarding the reliability of our models, particularly since we are making adjustments to our models in response to rapid changes in economic conditions. This may increase the risk that our models could produce unreliable results or estimates that vary widely or prove to be inaccurate. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on assumptions and/or historical experience. Our models could produce unreliable results for a number of reasons, including incorrect coding of the models, invalid or incorrect assumptions underlying the models, the need for manual adjustments to respond to rapid changes in economic conditions, incorrect data being used by the models or actual results that do not conform to historical trends and experience. In addition, the complexity of the models and the impact of the recent turmoil in the housing and credit markets create additional risk regarding the reliability of our models, since models may not function well in situations for which there are few or no recent historical precedents, such as the extreme economic conditions we are now experiencing. The valuations, risk metrics, amortization results, loan loss reserve estimations and security impairment charges produced by our internal models may be different from actual results, which could adversely affect our business results, cash flows, fair value of net assets, business prospects and future financial results. Changes in any of our models or in any of the assumptions, judgments or estimates used in the models may cause the results generated by the model to be materially different. The different results could cause a revision of previously reported financial condition or results of operations, depending on when the change to the model, assumption, judgment or estimate is implemented. Any such changes may also cause difficulties in comparisons of the financial condition or results of operations of prior or future periods. If our models are not reliable, we could also make poor business decisions, impacting loan purchases, management and guarantee fee pricing, asset and liability management, or other decisions. Furthermore, any strategies we employ to attempt to manage the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective. See “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES — Valuation of Financial Instruments” and “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK — Interest-Rate Risk and Other Market Risks” for more information on our use of models. Changes in our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations; our financial results and net worth may also be adversely affected by the accounting effects of our activities under conservatorship, including our implementation of HASP. In particular, (i) proposed amendments to SFAS 140 and FIN 46(R); and (ii) potential accounting effects of our implementation of HASP could have a significant impact on our net worth, and could require us to request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. We have identified certain accounting policies and estimates as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and for which materially different amounts could be recorded using different assumptions or estimates. For a description of our critical accounting policies, see “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES.” As new information becomes available and we update the assumptions underlying our estimates, we could be required to revise previously reported financial results. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC can change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised accounting standards could result in material adverse effects to our stockholders’ equity (deficit) and result in or contribute to the need for additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. For example, FASB has proposed changes to SFAS 140 and FIN 46(R), which may be effective as early as January 2010. If the FASB adopts the changes as proposed, we would be required to consolidate our PC trusts in our financial statements. If we are required to consolidate a significant portion of the assets and liabilities of our PC trusts, this could have a significant adverse impact on our net worth and could require us to take additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. 50 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Such consolidation could also significantly increase our required level of capital under existing capital rules (which have been suspended by the Conservator). Implementation of these proposed changes would require significant operational and systems changes. Depending on the implementation date ultimately required by FASB, it may be difficult or impossible for us to make all such changes in a controlled manner by the effective date. In addition, our implementation of HASP may require us to incur substantial costs and recognize potentially substantial accounting impacts. See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” to our consolidated financial statements for more information. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause losses. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our business, liability to customers, legislative or regulatory intervention or reputational damage. For example, our business is highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of transactions on a daily basis. The transactions we process have become increasingly complex and are subject to various legal, accounting and regulatory standards. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions or new types of transactions or products could constrain our ability to pursue new business initiatives. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our customers and manage our exposure to risk. Most of our key business activities are conducted in our principal offices located in McLean, Virginia. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities in which we are located. Potential disruptions may include those involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services we use or that are provided to us. If a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our customers or counterparties may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. We are exposed to the risk that a catastrophic event, such as a terrorist event or natural disaster, could result in a significant business disruption and an inability to process transactions through normal business processes. To mitigate this risk, we maintain and test business continuity plans and have established backup facilities for critical business processes and systems away from, although in the same metropolitan area as, our main offices. However, these measures may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information, including nonpublic personal information and sensitive business data, processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured. We rely on third parties for certain functions that are critical to financial reporting, our mortgage-related investments portfolio activity and mortgage loan underwriting. Any failures by those vendors could disrupt our business operations. We outsource certain key functions to external parties, including but not limited to: (a) processing functions for trade capture, market risk management analytics, and asset valuation; (b) custody and recordkeeping for our investment portfolios; and (c) processing functions for mortgage loan underwriting. We may enter into other key outsourcing relationships in the future. If one or more of these key external parties were not able to perform their functions for a period of time, at an acceptable service level, or for increased volumes, our business operations could be constrained, disrupted or otherwise negatively impacted. Our use of vendors also exposes us to the risk of a loss of intellectual property or of confidential information or other harm. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to provide services to us. 51 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our risk management and loss mitigation efforts may not effectively mitigate the risks we seek to manage. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate operational risks, interest-rate and other market risks and credit risks related to our business. Our risk management policies, procedures and techniques may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks we have identified or to appropriately identify additional risks to which we are subject. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK,” “MD&A — CREDIT RISKS” and “MD&A — OPERATIONAL RISKS” for a discussion of our approach to managing the risks we face. Legal and Regulatory Risks The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be materially affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure and mission of the company. We believe that it is highly likely that the role of the company and our business model will be substantially affected by future legislation, which could substantially affect our structure and future results of operations. Some or all of our functions could be transferred to other institutions, and we could cease to exist as a stockholder-owned company or at all. If any of these events were to occur, our shares could substantially diminish in value, or cease to have any value, and there can be no assurance that our stockholders would receive any compensation for such loss in value. In addition, the Reform Act provides FHFA with more expansive regulatory authority over us than was held by OFHEO and the manner in which this authority will be implemented currently is unclear. Legislation or regulation affecting the financial services, mortgage and investment banking industries may adversely affect our business activities and financial results. We expect that the financial services, mortgage and investment banking industries will face increased regulation, whether by legislation or regulatory actions at the federal or state level. Our business activities may be directly affected by any such legislative and regulatory actions. For example, we could be negatively affected by legislation at the state level that changes the foreclosure process of any individual state. We may also be indirectly affected to the extent any such actions affect the activities of banks, savings institutions, insurance companies, securities dealers and other regulated entities that constitute a significant part of our customer base or counterparties. Congress may introduce legislation that could result in a broad overhaul of the financial services industry’s regulatory system. Legislative or regulatory provisions that create or remove incentives for these entities either to sell mortgage loans to us or to purchase our securities could have a material adverse effect on our business results. Among the legislative and regulatory provisions applicable to these entities are capital requirements for federally insured depository institutions and regulated bank holding companies. Congress is currently considering legislation that would allow bankruptcy judges to unilaterally change the terms of many mortgage loans, including by reducing the loan balance. If enacted, this legislation could cause us to suffer substantial GAAP losses, including increased losses on our credit guarantee portfolio and additional other-than-temporary impairments on our non-agency mortgage-related securities, and may require us to request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. Our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to return to long-term profitability may be affected by the nature, extent and success of the actions taken by the U.S. government to stabilize the economy and financial markets. Conditions in the overall economy and the mortgage markets in particular may be affected in both the short and long-term by the implementation of the EESA, the Recovery Act, the Financial Stability Plan announced by Treasury Secretary Geithner on February 10, 2009 and HASP. The effect that the implementation of these laws and programs may have on our business is uncertain. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that these laws and programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these laws and programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to the debt markets. We may make certain changes to our business in an attempt to meet the housing goals and subgoals that may increase our losses. We may make adjustments to our mortgage sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to meet our housing goals and subgoals, including changes to our underwriting guidelines and the expanded use of targeted initiatives to reach underserved populations. For example, we may purchase loans and mortgage-related securities that offer lower expected returns on our investment and increase our exposure to credit losses. Doing so could cause us to forgo other purchase opportunities that we would expect to be more profitable. If our current efforts to meet the goals and subgoals prove to be insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could further increase our losses. 52 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are involved in legal proceedings and governmental investigations that could result in the payment of substantial damages or otherwise harm our business. We are a party to various legal actions, and are subject to investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. In addition, certain of our directors, officers and employees are involved in legal proceedings for which they may be entitled to reimbursement by us for costs and expenses of the proceedings. The defense of these or any future claims or proceedings could divert management’s attention and resources from the needs of the business. We may be required to establish reserves and to make substantial payments in the event of adverse judgments or settlements of any such claims, investigations or proceedings. Any legal proceeding or governmental investigation, even if resolved in our favor, could result in negative publicity or cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Furthermore, developments in, outcomes of, impacts of, and costs, expenses, settlements and judgments related to these legal proceedings and governmental investigations may differ from our expectations and exceed any amounts for which we have reserved or require adjustments to such reserves. See “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” for information about our pending legal proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 