RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and operations involve numerous risks, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, which may affect future results and the market price of the Company’s Common Shares. The following discussion highlights all the material risks the Company faces. The Company’s Recent Reorganization Into Foreign Invested Enterprise Exposes the Company’s Manufacturing Operations to Rules and Regulations That Previously Did Not Affect the Company. Since the Company commenced its manufacturing operations in China in 1991, the Company has conducted a majority of its operations at a single facility located in Long Hua, Shenzhen, China. The Company’s operations in Long Hua, Shenzhen, were conducted pursuant to various agreements entered into, primarily, between two of the Company’s subsidiaries and the Shenzhen City Baoan District Foreign Economic Development Head Company and its designees (collectively, the “BFDC”) (the agreements, collectively the “BFDC Agreements”). These agreements were scheduled to expire in 2016. Pursuant to the BFDC Agreements, the BFDC was the party responsible for providing manufacturing facilities for the Company and for supplying workers to the Company. The Company paid the BFDC a management fee and certain other charges for the use of the facilities and the services of the workers. As a result of structuring its operations so that they are conducted pursuant to the BFDC Agreements, the Company’s operations in Long Hua, Shenzhen, were not subject to many of the rules and regulations that would be imposed on entities which are considered under China law to be doing business in China (either as joint venture or as a wholly owned subsidiary organized in China). For example, the Company did not have to apply for permits or licenses in China or to register to do business in China. 3 In 2010, the Company received official governmental notice that the BFDC license structure of operations would no longer be permitted and that, accordingly, all foreign companies operating under that structure, including the Company’s two subsidiaries, would have to reorganize their operations by no later than June 30, 2012. The Company was informed that, despite the 2016 expiration dates, the BFDC Agreements would expire on June 30, 2012. As a result of the foregoing governmental decree, in April 2011 the Company commenced a major reorganization to restructure its operations to a corporate structure that would allow it to continue its operations in China. As part of this reorganization, the Company (i) has formed a new wholly-owned subsidiary that is registered in the PRC, (ii) will terminate one of its two principal BFDC Agreements later this year, and (iii) and is currently transforming and transferring the operations of its principal subsidiary in China to the newly formed, wholly-owned limited liability company that is registered in China. A foreign owned subsidiary such as the Company’s new wholly-owned PRC registered subsidiary, is commonly known as a “foreign invested enterprise” (a “FIE”), or as a “Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise” (a “WFOE”). The Company has decided to operate its second subsidiary under its existing BFDC Agreement and to gradually wind down the operations of the second subsidiary by the date that the second BFDC Agreement expires in 2012. As a new PRC registered WFOE, the Company’s new PRC subsidiary will now be permitted to hire its own employees, lease its own facilities, and distribute its products in China. However, unlike the Company’s prior arrangements under the BFDC Agreements, the PRC subsidiary will now have to obtain and maintain new permits and licenses, will now be subject to China’s income and business taxes, and will now be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to PRC registered companies, many of which previously did not apply to its operations in China. Since the Company only recently transformed part of its operations in the PRC into a WFOE, it is uncertain how the newly applicable rules, regulations and tax provisions will affect the Company, its operations and its financial results. No assurance can be given that operating through a PRC registered company in the China will not negatively affect the Company’s overall business, operations and profitability. The Transformation of the Operations Into a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Could Result in Substantial Unexpected Costs. Although the Chinese authorities are cooperating with the Company in its transformation from an enterprise operating under the BFDC Agreements into a WFOE, and although the Company is attempting to comply with the new WFOE dictates, the transformation into a WFOE could result in significant unexpected financial losses and other negative effects. The implementation and interpretation of the new regulations that require the Company to terminate the BFDC Agreements and to operate in the future as a WFOE could result in increased taxes, the imposition of penalties, increased wages and labor costs, and the loss of key employees. For example, although the local governmental authorities implementing the transition to a WFOE have informed the Company that the transfer of equipment, machinery and inventory to the new WFOE subsidiary will be exempt from VAT and import taxes, the implementation of these new rules may nevertheless result in the Company being assessed new transfer or other similar taxes or may trigger a reassessment of prior transactions. Likewise, the transition to a WFOE could require the Company to pay significant severance payments to some of its employees, could result in the resignation of some of those employees, or could cause the Company to terminate selected employees or workers because of the new taxes imposed on the Company or the workers. Because the Company is unaware of any precedent for this type of forced transformation to a WFOE, the Company is unable to assess the likelihood that any of the foregoing risks will occur or, if they do occur, what the financial or other impact will be on the Company. As a result, no assurance can be given that the costs and dislocation on the Company of the transition of its Shenzhen operation into a WFOE will not have a material negative affect on the Company, its operations or its financial condition. 4 Failure to Renew the Long Hua Leases Would Materially Change The Company’s Future Operations. The Company’s sole current manufacturing facilities, located in Long Hua, Shenzhen, consist of approximately 450,000 square feet of space that are used for manufacturing and as dormitory facilities. These facilities are leased pursuant to six leases (the “Premises Leases”). The Premises Leases expire on February 28, 2012. The Company does not yet know if it will be able to renew the Premises Leases when they expire. If the Company is not able to reach a suitable agreement with the landlord of the Premises Leases, the Company will have to relocate its manufacturing facility to another, as yet unidentified, location and facility. The Company believes that currently there are other alternative facilities available to the Company in or near Long Hua, Shenzhen. However, the number of such other facilities near its current location is limited, and the Company may not be able to find facilities that suit its needs, are in a geographically desirable area, and that are financially acceptable. Since, as part of the Reorganization, the Company now conducts most of its operations in China through a PRC registered company, the Company’s PRC subsidiary may legally move its manufacturing facilities to other regions that may offer suitable facilities. Accordingly, unlike in previous years, the Company has more flexibility in moving its facilities and, therefore, more flexibility in its negotiations with its landlord. However, if the Company does not renew the Premises Leases and has to relocate its facilities, the relocation of the Company’s principal manufacturing facilities to alternative facilities will be costly, will materially disrupt the Company’s operations, could result in the Company having to pay increased rent and fees, and could adversely affect the Company’s operations, its business, and its financial condition during the relocation. Accordingly, the expiration and non-renewal of the Premises Leases could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operations and financial condition in the near future. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to re-negotiate and extend the Premises Leases upon their expiration in February 2012 or that any such renewal will be on terms favorable to the Company. Recent Changes in Labor Laws, Environmental Regulation, Safety Regulation and Business Practices, and Operating Costs in China, and in Shenzhen in Particular, Have Significantly Increased the Costs and Risks of Doing Business. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Chinese government has during the past few years significantly changed and/or increased the enforcement of a number of laws affecting employees (including regulations regarding their salaries and benefits, labor unions, working conditions and overtime restrictions, and contract duration—in particular, requirements leading to lifelong employment), and safety regulations for buildings and workers. In addition, the Chinese government has also changed or increased the enforcement of certain environment protection laws, which have restricted some common practices and/or increased the Company’s cost of operations. Economic development in China, particularly in Shenzhen, China, may be limited as well by other factors, such as the overburdened infrastructure, inadequate transportation, power, and water supplies. Certain parts of China, including the Company’s facilities in Long Hua, Shenzhen, have in the past experienced shortages of electricity and water, which could negatively affect the Company. During the past fiscal year, the Company has experienced both water and electricity shortages, which have caused the Company to supplement its electricity needs through its diesel electricity generators. The foregoing factors have increased the risks of doing business in China and have caused many companies to terminate their operations in Southern China and have caused most of the remaining companies operating in Shenzhen, China to restructure their operations. The foregoing changes in labor and environmental rules and regulations, among others, adversely affected the Company’s recent financial results during the past two years. No assurance can be given that other business changes will not be implemented that will further negatively affect the Company and that the Company will, in fact, be able to continue to operate and/or prosper under any new business or regulatory conditions. 5 Internal Fiscal, Regulatory and Political Changes May Negatively Affect The Company’s Operations in China. The Company’s sole manufacturing facility is located in China. As a result, the Company’s operations and assets are subject to all of the political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China. Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or the interpretation thereof, confiscatory taxation, restrictions on imports and sources of supply, currency re-valuations or the expropriation of private enterprise could materially adversely affect the Company. The Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There can be no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successfully pursued, that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time, or that business operations in China would not become subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of investments. Further Upward Revaluation Of Renminbi Yuan Will Increase The Company’s Cost of Operations And Could Reduce Its Profitability. As a company whose manufacturing operations are entirely based in China and whose operating expenses in China are paid in RMB, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in the value of the renminbi yuan, or RMB, the local currency of China. Since the fixed China currency exchange rate ended in July 2005, the yuan has appreciated relative to the U.S. dollar. Nevertheless, the United States and certain European countries have continued to call for the re-valuation of the RMB, which revaluation would result in the appreciation of the RMB compared to the U.S. dollar. In response to the demand for a revaluation of the renminbi, the Chinese government has permitted the RMB to appreciate in value (over 25% of cumulative appreciation since July 2005, when China abolished the yuan's peg to the dollar). There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Since an increase in the value of the RMB results in an increase of the Company’s operating costs in China, any future increases in the value of the RMB compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies will have a negative affect on the Company’s financial results. Should the RMB continue to appreciate in value compared to the U.S. dollar, the Company’s cost structure and pricing would change and could have a material negative effect on its operations, sales and financial results. 6 Increased Wages And Recent Changes In The China’s Labor Laws Negatively Affect The Company’s Operations And Increase Its Operating Costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law and more strictly enforced certain existing labor laws. The new law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, amended and formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. As a result of the new law, the Company has had to reduce the number of hours of overtime its workers can work, substantially increase salaries of its workers, provide additional benefits to its workers, and revise certain other of its labor practices. The increase in labor costs has increased the Company’s operating costs, which increase the Company has not always been able to pass through to its customers. The Company’s attempt to increase its prices to reflect the increase in labor and other costs has strained its relations with certain of its principal customers and has caused a few of its customers to transfer their business to other OEM manufacturers. In addition, under the new law, employees who have worked for the Company for 10 years or more or who have had two consecutive fixed-term contracts must be given an “open-ended employment contract” that, in effect, constitutes a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in the event the employee materially breaches the Company’s rules and regulations or is in serious dereliction of his duty. Such non-cancelable employment contracts will substantially increase its employment related risks and limit the Company’s ability to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. The changes in the labor laws directly contributed to four strikes in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 at the Company’s manufacturing facilities. No assurance can be given that the Company will not in the future be subject to additional labor cost increases or even labor strikes or other disruptions as a result of the labor issues caused by the new laws. In part to reduce the cost of its workers, the Company has, during the past few years, been increasing the amount of automation and its use of robotics in its operations. Although the cost of acquiring and installing automation equipment initially is high, the Company believes that in the long term these costs will be offset by an increase in productivity and a decrease in the marginal cost of production. Uncertain Legal System and Application of Laws. The legal system of China is often unclear and is continually evolving, and currently there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. While China has a comprehensive system of laws, the application of these laws by the existing regional and local authorities is often in conflict and subject to inconsistent interpretation, implementation and enforcement. New laws and changes to existing laws occur quickly and sometimes unpredictably. As is the case with all businesses operating in China, the Company often is also required to comply with informal laws and trade practices imposed by local and regional administrators. Local taxes and other charges are levied depending on the local needs for tax revenues and may not be predictable or evenly applied. These local and regional taxes/charges and governmentally imposed business practices often affect the Company’s cost of doing business and require the Company to constantly modify its business methods to both comply with these local rules and to lessen the financial impact and operational interference of such policies. While the Company has, to date, been able to increase its compliance with the regulations and operate within the newly enforced rules and business practices, no assurance can be given that it will continue to be able to do so in the future. Should the local or regional governments or administrators impose new practices or levies that the Company cannot effectively respond to, or should the administrators continue to enforce more of those rules that they have not previously enforced, the Company’s operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. The Company’s ability to appeal many of the local and regionally imposed laws and regulations is limited, and the Company may not be able to seek adequate redress for laws that materially damage its business. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate laws do exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of that law. 7 Political Or Trade Controversies Between China And The United States Could Harm The Company’s Operating Results Or Depress The Stock Price. Relations between the U.S. and China have during the past few years been strained as a result of numerous events that have threatened the business relations between the countries. These strains on U.S./China relations could affect the ability of foreign companies operating in China, such as the Company, from engaging in business with, or selling to the U.S. or U.S. companies. Any disruption of the current trade relations with the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. No assurance can be given that these and any other future controversies will not change the status quo involving peaceful trade relations between the U.S. and China, or that the Company’s business and operations in China will not be materially and adversely affected. Even if trade relations between the U.S. and China are not affected by political difficulties between the two countries, such political friction could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the Company’s Common Shares. Labor Shortages and Employee Difficulties. One of the principal economic advantages of locating the Company’s operations in China has been the availability of low cost labor. Due to the enormous growth in manufacturing in China and the effects of China’s one-child policy, the Company has recently experienced some difficulty in filling its labor needs. In addition to the recently developing tight labor market, the Company has also been affected by cyclical trends and other shortages in labor supply. For approximately two months each year, there are severe labor shortages in China as a result of the Chinese New Year during which time the Company follows the customary practice at its factory complex to grant its employees home leave and to, therefore, temporarily discontinuing operations. Any material or prolonged shortage of labor would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. During the past few years, the Chinese government has made sweeping changes to labor laws, including increasing minimum wages, limiting overtime hours, permitting workers to join labor unions, permitting workers to sue their employers to enforce labor law violations, and requiring employers to provide other employee benefits. As a result of the foregoing labor law changes, the cost of hiring workers has substantially increased, which has negatively affected the Company’s cost advantage it enjoyed compared to non-China manufacturers. Employers found to be violating these labor rules are often severely penalized. The strict enforcement of the labor laws, combined with the shortages in the available labor pool, have increased the Company’s costs of finding, hiring, paying, and otherwise providing for employees. The Global Economic Uncertainty and Weakness Has Adversely Affected The Company’s Business And, Until Global Economic Conditions Improve, Is Expected To Continue To Do So. Most of the Company’s customers are international companies that operate globally or serve global markets. As a result, the Company’s customers have been affected by the unstable global financial and credit markets and by the recent downturn in many economies. The business environment for many of the Company’s customers has been challenging as a consequence of adverse worldwide economic conditions. In particular, there has been an erosion of global consumer confidence from concerns over declining asset values, price instability, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. The instability of the markets and weakness of the global economy has adversely affected, and could continue to affect adversely, the demand for the Company’s customers’ products, the amount and timing of their orders, the financial strength of those customers and the Company’s suppliers, and/or the Company’s suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations. For example, the Company’s revenues decreased by $11,990,000 (or 36%) in fiscal 2010 compared to revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as the Company’s customers reduced their purchase orders. Even though there are signs that an overall economic recovery is beginning, and although the Company’s net sales have substantially rebounded for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, the global economic uncertainty is expected to continue to affect the Company’s operations, earnings and financial condition. This instability also could affect the prices at which the Company can sell its products, which also could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and financial condition. In addition, if the recovery is weak or short-lived, recessionary conditions may return and the Company’s net sales may again decrease, prices would have to be reduced, and the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations to the Company will again be strained. 8 The Company is Financially Dependent Upon a Few Major Customer. During the years ended March 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011 the Company’s sales to its three largest customers for such periods accounted for approximately 48.2%, 50.5% and 50.7% of net sales respectively. See “Business—Major Customers.” While the Company believes that there are material benefits to limiting its customer base to a few, large, well-established and financially strong customers, having fewer customers also has significant risks. The Company’s success will depend to a significant extent on maintaining its major customers and on the success achieved by its major customers. The Company could be materially adversely affected if it loses any major customers or if the business and operations of its major customers decreases. While the Company has in the past been able to replace major customers, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to do so in the future. Since most of the Company’s sales transactions with its customers are based on purchase orders received by the Company from time to time, the Company is to a large extent dependent upon continuously receiving new purchase orders for its future sales. As a result, most of the Company’s revenues are dependent upon periodic orders from these major customers, and the amount of sales to these customers fluctuates from time to time. In addition, with fewer, larger customers, the Company’s operations are more significantly impacted by a delay or reduction of any anticipated purchase orders or by the loss of any one or more of its major customers. In addition to its increasing dependence on generating revenues from fewer, larger customers, the Company’s risk exposure to the collection of its accounts receivable likewise is increasing as the size of receivables from individual clients increases. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales to its major customers are made on credit, which exposes the Company to the risk of significant revenue loss if a major customer is unable to honor its credit obligations to the Company. Any material delay in being paid by its larger customers, or any default by a major customer on its obligations to the Company would significantly and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2010, and 2011 accounts receivable from the three customers with the largest receivable balances at year-end represented 49.3%, 55.3% and 62.0% of the total outstanding receivables, respectively. The Company Is Highly Dependent Upon Its Executive Officers And Its Other Managers. The Company is highly dependent upon Roland Kohl, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and its other officers and managers. Although the Company has signed employment contracts with Mr. Kohl and many of its other key officers/managers, no assurance can be given that those employees will remain with the Company during the terms of their employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of the foregoing persons would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. Mr. Kohl’s employment agreement expires in March 2014. The Company currently owns a life insurance policy for Mr. Kohl in the amount of $2,000,000, but otherwise does not carry key man life insurance on any of its other officers or key managers. 9 The Company Must Continuously Adapt Its Operations To Suit Its Customers Needs, Or Else It Will Lose Customers. The Company’s customers are continuously changing the mix of their products. Accordingly, the Company must continuously adapt its manufacturing abilities to suit the needs of its customers. The failure to anticipate, detect or react to its customers changes can have severe adverse affects on the Company’s operations. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to detect and correctly react to future changes in the needs of its principal customers, or that its investments in equipment and machinery in anticipation of such changes will result in the anticipated return. Should the Company incorrectly react to changes in the needs of its current or future customers, its business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company Faces Significant Competition From Numerous Larger, Better Capitalized, and International Competitors. The Company competes against numerous manufacturers for all of its current products. Such competition arises from both third party manufacturers (such as the Company) and from the in–house manufacturing capabilities of existing customers. To a large extent, the Company competes in its Original Equipment Manufacturing (“OEM”) business on the basis of quality, price, service, and the ability to deliver products on a reliable basis. Due to intense price competition, the Company has at times during the past few years had to reduce its price and its operating margins. In addition, because of significant competition and the availability of alternate OEM suppliers for the Company’s customers, the Company has, at times, been unable to pass through significant materials cost increases. This has led to lower gross margins and even to net losses in some product lines. During the past few years, the Company has at times lost manufacturing contracts because of its price increases, which losses have resulted in lower net sales and have reduced its market share. As a result of these factors, the Company will have to continue to operate at narrow gross profit margins, which could jeopardize the Company’s financial position. Since locating its facilities in Shenzhen, China, in 1991, the Company has been able to compete with other manufacturers based on its cost of operations in Shenzhen, the availability of a large labor pool, its favorable tax status, and its convenient access to Hong Kong’s shipping port and business/banking facilities. However, since the Company first moved to Shenzhen as one of the first manufacturers in that locality, many other manufacturers have re-located or established new facilities in Shenzhen, and the Company’s competitive advantage has been significantly diminished. In addition, many of the larger, international companies that have established competing facilities in Shenzhen have also established manufacturing facilities in other low-cost manufacturing locations, many located at sites outside of China, which have given those competitors the ability to shift their manufacturing to those locations whenever costs at those other locations are cheaper than in Shenzhen. Accordingly, the Company has indirectly been competing against both the competitors in Shenzhen as well as the other facilities outside of China. Recent events in China have significantly increased the cost of operating in China, including changes in labor laws, changes in environmental regulations and in the enforcement of such regulations, increases in safety regulations, and a general increase in the cost of doing business have all collectively significantly eroded the advantages of operating in China. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to be able to compete effectively against companies outside of China in its principal businesses. 10 Dependence on the Long Hua, Shenzhen, Factory Complex. All of the Company’s manufacturing is currently conducted at a single facility in Long Hua, Shenzhen. Although the Company has, in the recent past, operated as many as four factories in China, the Company has closed or sold those other facilities and now operates its sole manufacturing facility in Long Hua. As a result, the Company is once again dependent upon it main Long Hua, Shenzhen facility for all of its operations and revenues. The loss of this facility, or any material disruption of its operations at this facility, would be costly, would materially disrupt the Company’s overall operations, and would have a material and adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company currently maintains fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $20,000,000 covering its stock in trade goods and merchandize, furniture and equipment in China. The scope of the insurance coverage, and the amount of financial coverage provided by this insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or, the loss of, all or material portions of the factory complex due to fire, severe weather, flood, or other act of God or cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, business and prospects. The Cost Of Purchasing Components Has Been Erratic And Could Increase, Thereby Negatively Affecting The Company’s Margins And Operating Results. The Company purchases many of the components used in manufacturing its products. An estimate of the cost of these components is included in the price that the Company quotes to its customers. However, the Company does not have written agreements with most of its suppliers of components. As a result, the Company’s agreements with most of its largest customers permit the Company to adjust the price of its products to reflect unexpected increases in the cost of raw materials or components. Because the Company cannot always pass unexpected price increased on to its customers, the Company bears the risk of component price increases under certain of its customer purchase orders. Accordingly, unanticipated increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect the Company’s gross margins and operating results. Fluctuation in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. Because the Company engages in international trade, the Company is subject to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of the Company’s operations in the PRC and Hong Kong, as well as its international base of customers, the Company makes and/or receives payments in various currencies (including U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, RMB and Euros). As a result, the Company is exposed to the risks associated with possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations. Although the Company’s financial results were not significantly impacted in fiscal 2011 by currency rate fluctuations (the Company had a small, $7,000 currency exchange loss in fiscal 2011), the Company’s financial results previously have been significantly affected by currency fluctuations, and may be significantly affected again in the future. For example, in fiscal 2009 the Company had a currency exchange loss of $330,000, which was followed by a currency exchange gain of $173,000 for the fiscal 2010. Notwithstanding these currency conversion rate fluctuations, the Company does not attempt to hedge its currency exchange risks and, therefore, will continue to experience certain gains or losses due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company does attempt to limit its currency exchange rate exposure in certain of its OEM contracts through contractual provisions, which may limit, though not eliminate, these currency risks. In addition, the Company has an understanding with many of its larger European customers that the Company’s quoted prices will be periodically adjusted to reflect currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company is also attempting to limit its exposure to currency fluctuations with its non-U.S. based customers by increasingly asking for payment in U.S. dollars. 11 Significant Worldwide Political, Economic, Legal And Other Risks Related To International Operations. The Company is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, has administrative offices for its subsidiaries in Hong Kong, and has all of its manufacturing facilities in China. The Company sells its products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, and Japan. As a result, its operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including changes in international and domestic customs regulations, changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation, changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies, difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations, and wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict the Company’s ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of the Company’s operations in that region. Future Acquisitions Or Strategic Investments May Not Be Successful And May Harm The Company’s Operating Results. As part of its strategy, the Company may acquire or enter into strategic relationships with other enterprises in China and possibly elsewhere. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results because of: · The assumption of unknown liabilities, including employee obligations. Although the Company normally conducts extensive legal and accounting due diligence in connection with its acquisitions, there are many liabilities that cannot be discovered, and which liabilities could be material. · The Company may become subject to significant expenses related to bringing the financial, accounting and internal control procedures of the acquired business into compliance with U.S. GAAP financial accounting standards and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. · The Company’s operating results could be impaired as a result of restructuring or impairment charges related to amortization expenses associated with intangible assets. · The Company could experience significant difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers’ products and businesses with its operations. · Future acquisitions could divert the Company’s capital and management’s attention to other business concerns. · The Company may not be able to hire the key employees necessary to manage or staff the acquired enterprise operations. 12 Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation in the British Virgin Islands. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, and its corporate affairs are governed by its Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of the Company’s management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of the Company’s shareholders differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most U.S. jurisdictions. Thus, the public shareholders of the Company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions of the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, there is doubt that the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. Further, pursuant to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association and pursuant to the laws of the British Virgin Islands, the Company Memorandum and Articles of Association may be amended by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval (provided that a majority of the Company’s independent directors do not vote against such amendment). Amendments which may be made by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval include amendments increasing or reducing the authorized capital stock of the Company and increasing or reducing the par value of its securities. It May be Difficult to Serve the Company with Legal Process or Enforce Judgments Against the Company’s Management or the Company. The Company is a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. Substantially, all of the Company’s assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of the Company’s directors and executive officers reside outside of the U.S. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon the Company’s directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if various conditions are met, including the condition that the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter, the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands, the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands, and the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court. 13 Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Volatility Of Market Price Of the Company’s Shares. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of the Company’s Common Shares has been and could continue to be subject to material fluctuations in response to quarter to quarter variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of Common Shares by officers, directors and principal shareholders of the Company, news issued from competing companies, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Certain events, such as the issuance of Common Shares upon the exercise of outstanding stock options of the Company could also adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the Company’s securities. Exemptions Under The Exchange Act As A Foreign Private Issuer. The Company is a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). As such, and though its Common Shares are registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, it is exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to United States public companies including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within six months or less), and the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. In addition, certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 either do not apply to the Company or the implementation of the provisions has been deferred. Because of the exemptions under the Exchange Act and Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign private issuers, shareholders of the Company are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. Failure To Establish And Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Could Have A Material And Adverse Effect On The Accuracy In Reporting Our Financial Results Or Preventing Fraud. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. Because of the difficulty in hiring and keeping highly qualified accounting personnel, management may not be able to conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is fully effective. These possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which in turn could harm the Company’s business and negatively impact the trading price of the Company’s common shares. 14 The Financial Costs and Administrative Burdens of Implementing The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Financial Results and Financial Condition. To date, the Company has been exempted from some of the regulations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are applicable to U.S. public companies. Except for the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to our internal controls, all of the provisions of that act that will apply to the Company must now be implemented. These rules require the Company to make a number of changes in some of its corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In addition, in response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Nasdaq Stock Market has also promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with all of these new rules imposed by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to be a significant burden on the Company’s legal, financial and accounting costs. Concentration of Share Ownership Allows Management to Substantially Influence the Outcome of Matters Requiring Shareholder Approval. On June 21, 2011, members of the Company’s senior management and Board of Directors collectively beneficially owned approximately 33% of the Company’s outstanding Common Shares. As a result, if they were to act together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by the shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, or causing a change in control of the Company that may not be favored by our other shareholders. The Company may not declare or pay cash dividends. The Company attempts to pay a cash dividend annually to all holders of its Common Shares, subject to its profitability and cash position. Because of the financial uncertainty concerning the global economy and the effect that the slowdown in the global economy could have on the Company, the Board did not declare or pay any dividends during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009. However, because of the Company’s cash position, despite the economic downturn, the Company did pay a dividend in fiscal 2010 (a dividend of $0.03 per share was paid in August 2009) and two dividends in fiscal 2011 (a dividend of $0.08 per share was paid October 28, 2010 and a dividend of $0.08 per share was paid on December 24, 2010). In addition, since the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, the Company paid an $0.08 per share dividend on April 18, 2011. Dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend upon, among other things, the Company’s net profit after taxes, the anticipated future earnings of the Company, the success of the Company’s business activities, the Company’s capital requirements, and the general financial conditions of the Company. Although it is the Company’s intention to pay dividends during profitable fiscal years, no assurance can be given that the Company will, in fact, pay any dividends in the future even if its has a profitable year or is otherwise capable of doing so. If the Company does not pay a cash dividend, the Company’s shareholders will not realize a return on their investment in the Common Shares except to the extent of any appreciation in the value of the Common Shares. The Common Shares may not appreciate in value, or may decline in value. 15 