Risk Factors 3.3.1 Risks Related to the Global Economic and Financial Crisis Commencing in early 2008, numerous cataclysmic economic and financial events roiled global and national financial markets and the international business community, including the sudden collapse of certain leading financial institutions, widespread default on various credit instruments, the collapse of the U.S. and other housing markets, a dramatic de-leveraging of capital investment and other business activities and a marked reduction in the availability of credit for businesses. These events unfolded quite quickly and unexpectedly and are widely considered to be key factors in the deep economic recession that adversely impacted the global economy generally and the Company in particular. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market in 2008, continuing into 2009, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide, or severely curtailed, funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The continuing shortage of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets has materially and adversely affected the trading price of the Company’s Common Shares and could materially and adversely impact its access to capital and its financial condition. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, its ability to access the capital markets, its financial condition and the willingness or ability of certain counterparties to do business with the Company. 7 While the Company does not engage in trade or business within the United States, its customers and suppliers, and the markets in which the Company engages in its business, are materially affected by the health of the U.S. economy, which in general has global consequences. The financial crisis that started in the United States spread to the economies of other industrialized and developed nations and emerging markets as well. The result was a global downturn in economic activity and a liquidity crisis for many financial institutions and their customers. Credit availability in the markets in which the Company conducts its business was materially reduced. Actual and Possible Impacts on the Company The deterioration of economic conditions resulting from the current global financial and credit crisis and economic downturn has and may well continue to adversely affect each of the markets in which the Company sells and distributes its products and provide services. In certain markets, sales have stagnated or even decreased as there has been a reduction in infrastructure development by governmental entities in certain instances and in capital expenditures and construction by private companies in anticipation of the fall in demand in the residential and commercial building markets. Many customers have also delayed their construction projects in the current weak market environment. The reduction in the manufacture of electronic products for export or local consumption has also reduced our sales of enameled wire. Copper prices on the London Metal Exchange (LME) fell from an average monthly high of $8,685 per metric ton in April 2008 to only $3,072 per metric ton in December 2008. In addition, sales towards the end of 2008 and into 2009 decreased due to worldwide economic downturn, thereby increasing our inventory levels at year end. Nevertheless, subsequently as a result of the commodity market’s dynamic nature, the copper prices on the LME have bounced back to $6,648 average in 2009, resulting in a better turnover for the second half of the year. With the fall in copper and commodity prices in the past, customers have sometimes been withholding orders in the expectation that prices may drop further. The Company experienced the impact of the economic crisis beginning in the second half of 2008 and into first half of 2009, which included lower sales and lower gross margins as compared to the first half of 2008 and the second half of 2007. The lower results in 2009 were primarily due to reduced order flow from customers However, with the re-bound of copper price in 2009, the customers were willing to accept a higher sales price from APWC in the beginning. Revenue for 2009 was $362.2 million, representing a 27.7% decline from 2008. Gross margin in the second half of 2009 decreased slightly by 1.2% as compared to the first half of 2009, primarily due to some pre-determined supply contracts to the customers in the first half. However, sales in the second half of 2009 increased by $60.8 million or 40% as compared to the first half of 2009. The Company is unable to determine the precise impact of the global economic crisis on its operations and cash flow since results are also affected by factors that are or may be unrelated to the economic crisis, such as the completion of routine purchase cycles by customers and the completion, suspension or termination of large infrastructure projects. However, the Company has concluded that current economic uncertainty has affected and will likely continue to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and cash flow. Specifically, the operating subsidiaries may encounter greater difficulty in raising new banking facilities and loans to support their working capital requirements in the current environment where banks are less willing to offer new facilities. Governments in certain countries, such as China, Thailand and Singapore, have pledged to increase infrastructure and construction spending to boost or maintain economic growth. Assuming those pledges are acted upon, those developments will likely have a favorable impact on our sales of manufactured products. However, the Company’s results for the first half of 2009 indicate that actual or planned governmental increases in allocations for expenditures on infrastructure development have not yielded any sustainable increase in sales of the Company’s products, particularly when the government’s focus was on additional housing and mass public transportation projects such as, among other things, cross-island passage ways. In addition, the re-bound in the trading prices of many public companies and the increases in major indices on a number of national exchanges since the lows of March 2009 have not translated into a material increase in customer behaviors with either private or government sponsored projects. The Company believes that any efforts to forecast likely future performance with any degree of specificity would be fraught with uncertainty due to the suddenness and severity of the financial crisis. In addition, the apparent recent stabilization of the 8 global capital markets and increase in economic activity cannot be taken as certain indicators that the global recession is over and that sustained economic growth is assured. Accordingly, the Company cautions against placing reliance on any efforts to identify trends for the foreseeable future. The governments in the countries in which we operate have otherwise predicted slower economic growth for the fiscal year 2010. For purposes of planning and prudent management, the Company is presently anticipating that the extremely challenging and difficult economic conditions that faced the global economy throughout 2009 will ease off to a lesser degree and the internal budget prepared by management as a planning tool for 2010 indicates a moderate increase in sales. In view of the continuing market challenges facing the Company, and its customers and the markets in which they operate, the Company has taken and continues to implement a number of measures in order to maintain efficient operations. Specifically, the Company has focused increased efforts on collecting its receivables on a timely basis. It is anticipated that some customers will take a longer time to settle their outstanding debts with the Company as they face tightening credit and lower sales themselves, however the Company will actively work with all of its significant customers to reduce collection times and minimize write offs. The Company has also reduced its inventory levels through planned lower raw material purchases while negotiating with suppliers to reduce costs of raw materials and supplies. The Company has focused also on reducing operating costs where practicable, including headcount restraint. In several of the Company’s subsidiaries, headcount increase has been frozen or even reduced and contract staff have been laid off as deemed necessary. Total headcount number for the entire group was reduced by 97 people from a year ago. The Company has hedged copper in Thailand through copper futures contracts in several instances in order to reduce the effect of the current volatility in copper prices on its operations. The Company is also negotiating and close to finalizing with banks for additional loans and credit facilities. We believe that the successful implementation of these actions has had a positive effect on our cash resources, and we intend to continue these measures in order to preserve our liquidity during this economically challenging period. The Company is seeking to maintain a strong cash position. While none of the Company’s material lines of credit have been terminated, the Company’s subsidiaries may encounter greater difficulty in raising new banking facilities and loans to support their working capital in the current environment where banks are less willing to offer new facilities. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had available and unused lines of credits from suppliers, banks and other lenders totaling, in the aggregate, approximately $211.2 million. We believe that available and unused amount of credit is sufficient to support our current working capital needs. The macroeconomic events and those specific to the Company may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business operations until such time as the global financial crisis has substantially abated and financial and economic conditions have materially improved. The Company notes, however, that the foregoing is subject to a number of unknown variables, including the impact of actions taken or that may be taken in the future by governmental entities to address the capital needs of banks and other financial institutions and to increase the flow of credit to businesses. 3.3.2 Risks Related to the Common Shares and Corporate Governance Consolidation of Charoong Thai Group Accounts As of December 31, 2009, the Company effectively owned 50.93% of the issued and outstanding shares of Charoong Thai Wire and Cable Public Company Limited (“Charoong Thai”). That percentage ownership constitutes a decrease from the Company’s initial ownership percentage and is attributable to the exercise of warrants or conversion of convertible securities by third parties. The Company’s present intention is to maintain majority ownership of the voting securities of Charoong Thai. However, there may be circumstances under which the Company cannot maintain majority ownership of Charoong Thai. In the event Charoong Thai determined to make a further offering of voting securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for 9 voting securities, and the Company was not in a position to fund or finance its participation in the offering, the ownership interest of the Company in Charoong Thai could fall below 50%. If the Company’s holding in Charoong Thai were to fall below 50%, the accounts of the Charoong Thai group, which includes all of the Company’s Thailand operations, will not be consolidated but instead will be equity accounted. In such an event, the Company’s accounts will show a decrease in revenue and most categories of assets and liabilities, which events could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Common Shares. Potential Illiquidity of Common Shares Approximately 75.4% of our Common Shares are either unregistered securities or registered securities held by affiliates, which are subject to restrictions on trading. Accordingly, approximately three quarters of our Common Shares are not fully liquid investments. In the recent past, the volume of trading in our Common Shares has not been substantial. This illiquidity may negatively impact the value of the Common Shares. Control of the Company Rests with Majority Shareholder; Controlled Company Exemption; Risks Related to PEWC As the majority shareholder, Pacific Electric Wire & Cable Co., Ltd. (“PEWC”) has sufficient votes to control the outcome of any matters presented for a shareholder vote, including the election of the members of the Board of Directors. PEWC may vote its shares in the Company in the manner that it sees fit. In addition, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, PEWC may sell, convey or encumber all or a portion of its ownership interest in the Company without regard to the best interests of the other shareholders of the Company except to the extent it may be required to comply with the terms of the Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement dated March 27, 2009 among the Company, PEWC and SOF Investments, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership which owns beneficially 9.8% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares, and except that it may not engage in conduct oppressive to minority interests under applicable law. The Company’s plans include seeking a listing on a national securities exchange, such as Nasdaq or NYSE Amex Equities (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange), as and when the Company meets the listing criteria for one of those exchanges. In the event of a listing on a national securities exchange, the Company intends to rely upon the “controlled company exemption” which will exempt the Company from a requirement to have a board of directors that has a majority of independent directors. The Company may also rely upon Nasdaq Rule 4350(a) or AMEX Company Guide Section 110, each of which would permit the Company to rely in certain instances upon the rules of its home country, Bermuda, which do not require that the board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, even assuming a listing on a national securities exchange, a majority of the Company’s Board may not be comprised of directors independent from any affiliation with the majority shareholder, PEWC. PEWC, the majority shareholder, is a Taiwanese company engaged in the manufacture and distribution of wire and cable products in the Taiwan markets. In November 2004, certain former officers and directors of PEWC (the “Former Executives”) were indicted by the Taipei District Prosecutors Office for their breach of trust, embezzlement of corporate funds, making of false accounting records and financial statements, and violation of various Taiwan securities laws. The most serious allegations of corporate theft and misappropriation were directed at Mr. Hu, the former chief financial officer of PEWC. As early as 1992, the Former Executives had incorporated a complex network of companies for the purpose of transferring PEWC funds out of Taiwan and of acquiring overseas investments for their personal benefit. In addition, they borrowed loans from banks for their personal benefit and made PEWC a guarantor for such borrowings, which were eventually repaid by PEWC. In an elaborate concealment scheme, the books of PEWC were balanced by way of fictitious bank deposits with certain banks incorporated in Vanuatu and other remote jurisdictions. The fraudulent actions of the Former Executives were uncovered in 2001 and 2002, when PEWC incurred losses attributable to the scheme equal to approximately $160 million and $669 million, respectively. To the best knowledge of the Company, proceedings against the Former Executives are continuing in the Taipei District Court. However, the Company is not a party to, or otherwise involved in, those proceedings. 10 In May 2003, the Taipei Stock Exchange (the “TSE”) and the Taiwan Securities and Futures Commission (“TSFC”) ordered PEWC to restate its 1998-2000 financial statements to reflect the losses attributable to the fraudulent activities of the Former Executives. Thereafter, the TSE suspended the trading of the shares of PEWC. In 2004, the shares of PEWC were delisted from the TSE. At the present time, the shares of PEWC are not traded on a recognized public exchange and there is no public market for the common stock of PEWC. To the Company’s knowledge, the criminal prosecution of at least several of the Former Executives is ongoing and PEWC is pursuing actions in several jurisdictions to recover misappropriated assets. A consortium of bank creditors (referred to as the “PEWC Banking Group”) has certain veto rights with respect to material acquisitions or expenditures by PEWC. Unresolved issues regarding PEWC raise a degree of uncertainty regarding its capacity in the future to continue to provide support to the Company as it has in the past with regard to inter-company loans, and with regard to research and development and other services under the Composite Services Agreement (discussed below), in each case on terms more favorable than those that might be available from unaffiliated providers. PEWC has provided credit support to the Company and its subsidiaries through the provision of direct loans, credit terms in inter-company trade balances between PEWC and the operating subsidiaries and corporate guarantees for trade and credit facilities from banks and financial institutions for the purposes of financing working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and expansion programs. There can be no assurance that PEWC will provide support in the future. Limited Trading Volume on the OTC BB Our Common Shares are traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board (the “OTC BB”). Trading in our Common Shares has been limited and there may not exist from time to time an active trading market for our Common Shares. As a consequence, shareholders may find their ability to sell their Common Shares quickly or in substantial amounts is adversely affected by the limited public trading market. Thinly-traded equity can be more volatile than equity securities traded in an active trading market. The high and low price for our Common Shares during the past 24 months has been $6.45 and $0.50, respectively. In the future, our Common Shares may experience significant price fluctuations which could adversely affect the value of the Common Shares. Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company focused on improving its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and remediating all material weaknesses, and as a result, both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were classified as effective as of December 31, 2008, but ineffective as of December 31, 2009 due to the development of material weaknesses. While the Company is taking steps to remediate the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2009, the Company cannot provide any assurances that other material weaknesses will not be identified upon further investigation, such that either disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting may be rendered ineffective for a period of time. Delinquency in Reporting Obligations; Reporting of Financial Results As a foreign private issuer, the Company is currently required to file its annual report on Form 20-F with the SEC within six months following the close of its fiscal year. The Company was not in a position to make the filing of its 2004 annual report on a timely basis. After the expiration of an automatic grace period, on August 29, 2005 the OTC BB delisted the Company for failure to remain current in the filing of its periodic reports. On November 9, 2007, the Company filed its 2004 annual report. On March 17, 2008, the Company filed its combined 2005 and 2006 annual report. The Company then relisted on the OTC BB in April 2008 under the symbol “AWRCF.” On June 28, 2008 and June 26, 2009, the Company filed its 2007 and 2008 annual report, respectively, on a timely basis. 11 The Company is currently compliant with its reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and believes that it has addressed the corporate governance obstacles that led to its delinquency in filing its 2004, 2005 and 2006 annual reports. However, the Company cannot provide assurances that it will continue to be compliant in its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. As a foreign private issuer, the Company is not required to provide financial results on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. In addition, Bermuda law does not require the Company to provide interim financial information to its shareholders, whether on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. As such, investors may not have the same access to financial information of the Company as they customarily receive in the case of a domestic issuer disclosing quarterly results on a Form 10-Q. Potential Conflict of Certain Officers and Directors The Company appointed two independent directors on September 28, 2007. Other than those two independent directors, all of the members of the Board of Directors are also directors or officers or otherwise affiliated with PEWC, the majority shareholder. Certain of our officers are also affiliated with PEWC. In each case, they may be subject to potential conflicts of interest. In addition, certain of our officers and directors who are also officers and/or directors of PEWC may be subject to conflicts of interest in connection with, for example, pursuing corporate opportunities in which we and PEWC or one of its affiliates have competing interests, and the performance by us and PEWC of our respective obligations under existing agreements, including the Composite Services Agreement and the Indemnification Agreement (discussed below). In addition, some of these persons will devote time to the business and affairs of PEWC and its affiliates as is appropriate under the circumstances, which could reduce the amount of time available for overseeing or managing our business and affairs. Notwithstanding any such potential conflicts, however, such individuals, in their capacities as our directors and officers, are subject to fiduciary duties to our shareholders. The Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), subjects our officers and directors to certain fiduciary standards in the exercise of their executive and management duties on behalf of the Company. Under the Companies Act, an officer of ours (which term includes our directors) is subject to a duty of care requiring him to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company in the discharge of his duties and to, among other things, give notice to the Board of Directors at the first opportunity of any interest he has in any material contract or proposed material contract with us or any of our subsidiaries. The Companies Act also prohibits us, subject to certain exceptions, from making loans to any directors without first obtaining the consent of shareholders holding in the aggregate not less than nine-tenths of the total voting rights of all the shareholders having the right to vote at any shareholders meeting. We do not make any loans to our directors or executive officers in accordance with the provisions of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Obligations under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement On June 28, 2007, SOF Investments, L.P. (“SOF”), a Delaware limited partnership, acquired 2,766,154 Common Shares, representing 20% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares (the “SOF Shares”), from Sino-JP Fund Ltd (“Sino-JP”). Following that sale, Sino-JP ceased to have any ownership interest in the Company and its three designees on the Board of Directors and the Company officers selected by it each resigned with immediate effect. On that same date, the Company entered into the Shareholders Agreement with PEWC and SOF, pursuant to which the Company granted to SOF certain rights and protections. Under the Shareholders Agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify SOF and its partners and certain of its affiliates (the “SOF Indemnified Persons”), for any additional taxes, interest, penalties and other costs that might be imposed upon or incurred by the SOF Indemnified Persons in the event that the Company is determined by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) to be a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) or a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”), as such terms are interpreted and defined under IRS rules and regulations. The Company does not believe that it is now or is likely to become a CFC or a PFIC; however, the Company cannot provide any assurances that it will not become a CFC or a PFIC in the future. In addition, the Company granted certain registration rights to SOF with respect to the SOF Shares (the “Registrable Securities”) in the Shareholders Agreement. In particular, the Company agreed to use its 12 reasonable best efforts to prepare and file, and cause to go effective, as soon as practicable, a shelf registration statement covering the resale of the Registrable Securities on a delayed or continuous basis. The Company also agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to keep its shelf registration statement effective until all Registrable Securities have been sold or until all Registrable Securities may be sold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, the Company granted to SOF two demand registration rights for underwritten offerings and customary piggyback registration rights with regard to the Registrable Securities. Moreover, the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Common Shares to be listed on a national “Securities Market,” which means any of the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (Global Market or Global Select Market), the American Stock Exchange LLC (now known as NYSE Amex Equities) or the New York Stock Exchange LLC, not later than January 31, 2009, subject to notice and a sixty (60) day cure period. All of the costs and expenses of the Company in connection with the fulfillment of its obligations under the Shareholders Agreement were to be paid by the Company, other than underwriting fees, discounts and commissions attributable to the sale of Common Shares held by SOF. Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement, if the Company failed to fulfill its obligations thereunder, SOF may have a claim for damages against the Company. No such claim has been made. In addition, if the Company fulfilled its reasonable best efforts undertakings but failed to meet one or more of the stated goals, SOF may have a put right of their Common Shares to PEWC. In accordance with those terms, on February 2, 2009, SOF delivered to PEWC notice of its exercise of the put right under the Shareholders Agreement due to the fact that the Common Shares were not listed on a national Securities Market as of January 31, 2009. On March 27, 2009, SOF sold 51% of its Common Shares to PEWC pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement between those parties. Upon the consummation of that share purchase agreement, SOF held 1,355,415 registered Common Shares of the Company and PEWC held 1,410,739 registered Common Shares, respectively, representing 9.8% and 10.2% of the outstanding Common Shares, with PEWC holding an additional 7,664,615 unregistered Common Shares, giving it an aggregate of 65.6% of the total issued and outstanding Common Shares. In connection with this transaction, the Company, PEWC and SOF entered into an Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, which among other things, granted to the Company an extension for listing the Common Shares on a national Securities Market until February 2011 and maintains for SOF the right to sell its remaining Common Shares to PEWC in the event the Company does not list its Common Shares on a national Securities Market by February 2011. The Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement also provides for those registration and indemnification rights set forth above in the description of the Shareholders Agreement. While the sale of Common Shares by SOF to PEWC resulted in PEWC holding a higher concentration of Common Shares which may impact liquidity for the other shareholders, the Company does not believe that any definitive impact can be forecasted or determined. In addition, sales of Common Shares held by SOF and registered under the shelf registration statement, or any registration statement that goes effective following an exercise of demand registration rights, will increase the number of Common Shares available for purchase in the public market and may adversely affect the value of the Common Shares held by other shareholders. Even without substantial sales by SOF or PEWC of their respective Registrable Securities, the possibility of such sales may create a “market overhang” that has the effect of depressing the trading price of the Common Shares. The Company has also granted to SOF preemptive rights in the event of any issuance of additional equity securities (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities) by the Company, such that SOF may subscribe for additional securities in order to maintain its then percentage ownership interest in the issued and outstanding equity securities of the Company. Risks Relating to the Settlement Agreement Following the acquisition by Sino-JP in 2004 of Common Shares of the Company, a number of disputes arose between PEWC and Sino-JP regarding the governance of the Company and other matters. Specifically, the Board was unable to reach a consensus on the proper treatment of certain doubtful accounts receivable. In addition, the then current Chief Financial Officer of the Company questioned the then current auditors of the 13 Company regarding the thoroughness of their review of these accounts receivable during the course of their 2004 audit of the Company’s financial statements, which led to the cessation of the 2004 audit by the auditors at that time. The initial narrow dispute between Board members designated by Sino-JP and other Board members regarding the accounting treatment for doubtful accounts receivable grew in scope, such that it became very difficult to achieve a consensus on a number of strategic and operational matters, due to the effective veto right held by the Sino-JP Board designees. On June 28, 2007, the date of the purchase by SOF of the SOF Shares from Sino-JP and the date of the Shareholders Agreement among the Company, PEWC and SOF, the Company and Sino-JP also entered into a comprehensive settlement and release agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”), which dismissed and released all claims between the parties and which put an end to all related litigation. Separately, PEWC also entered into a settlement and release agreement that terminated all disputes and litigation between those parties. Upon the closing of the purchase agreement for the SOF Shares and the Settlement Agreement, all of the directors and officers of the Company designated by Sino-JP submitted their resignations and Sino-JP ceased to have any interest in the Company. As part of the Settlement Agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify all of those Sino-JP designated directors and officers (the “Sino-JP Indemnified Persons”) for all acts or omissions taken in their capacity as a director or officer to the maximum extent permitted under the memorandum of association and the Bye-laws of the Company and the Companies Act. While the Company does not have any knowledge of any claims having been, or threatened to be, asserted against any of the Sino-JP Indemnified Persons, the Company could incur significant costs in the event any claims are asserted or actions commenced against any of the Sino-JP Indemnified Persons for matters within the scope of the indemnification provisions of the Settlement Agreement. Holding Company Structure; Potential Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends We have no direct business operations other than our ownership of the capital stock of our subsidiaries and joint venture holdings. While we have no present intention to pay dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet our other obligations will depend upon the amount of distributions, if any, received from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. Our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants contained in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency earnings into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. For example, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our business entities in the PRC only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with relevant PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, such entities are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The foregoing restrictions may also affect our ability to fund operations of one subsidiary with dividends and other payments received from another subsidiary. Requirement to Maintain Effectiveness of the Registration Statement and to List on a National Securities Exchange; Effect of the Put of the SOF Shares to PEWC Under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, SOF has retained the right to sell its remaining Common Shares (the “SOF Shares”) to PEWC if the Company does not achieve a listing on a national Securities Market within the time frame provided in the agreement. In addition, the Company has agreed to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form F-1, for the benefit of SOF, and if the Company fails to do so for any period of thirty (30) consecutive trading days or an aggregate of sixty (60) trading days during any twelve month period, then SOF may, subject to compliance with notice and other procedural requirements, exercise a right to sell its remaining Common Shares to PEWC. At all times, the Company must exercise its reasonable best efforts to comply with its covenants under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement. Otherwise, the Company could be subject to a damages claim by SOF. The Company is using its diligent efforts to bring and maintain current the financial disclosure in the registration statement on Form F-1 covering the SOF Shares and the registered Common Shares held by PEWC. 14 On February 2, 2009, SOF delivered notice of its exercise of the put right under the Shareholders Agreement to PEWC due to the fact that the Common Shares were not listed on a national Securities Market as of January 31, 2009, which date was agreed to by the Company prior to the extension granted under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement. On March 27, 2009, PEWC and SOF completed a share purchase transaction pursuant to which PEWC acquired 1,410,739 Common Shares from SOF. As of the closing of that transaction, PEWC held 9,075,354 Common Shares and SOF held 1,355,415 Common Shares, representing 65.6% and 9.8% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares, respectively. The Company does not believe that any definitive impact of the increase in PEWC’s ownership can be forecasted or determined. Corporate Matters; Limited Recourse; Limited Enforceability We are incorporated in and organized pursuant to the laws of Bermuda. In addition, all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and our material assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to realize against them in courts of the United States upon judgments predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. Even if investors are successful in realizing against such persons in courts of the United States, the laws of Taiwan may render such investors unable to enforce the judgment against the Company’s assets or the assets of its officers and directors. Also, investors may have difficulty in bringing an original action based upon the United States federal securities law against such persons in the Taiwan courts. Additionally, we have been advised by our legal counsel in Bermuda, Appleby, that there is doubt as to the enforcement in Bermuda, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws, although Bermuda Courts will enforce foreign judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters subject to certain conditions and exceptions. As a result, shareholders may encounter more difficulties in enforcing their rights and protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, the Board of Directors or controlling shareholders than they would if the Company were organized under the laws of the United States or one of the states therein, or if the Company had material assets located within the United States or some of the directors and officers were resident within the United States. See “Enforceability of Certain Civil Liabilities” for additional information. 3.3.3 Risks Relating to Our Business Risks Relating to Copper Copper is the principal raw material we use, accounting for a majority of the cost of sales. We purchase copper at prices based on the average prevailing international spot market prices on the London Metal Exchange (the “LME”) for copper for the one month prior to purchase. The price of copper is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political conditions, supply and demand, inventory levels maintained by suppliers, actions of participants in the commodities markets and currency exchange rates. As with other costs of production, changes in the price of copper may affect the Company’s cost of sales. Whether this has a material impact on our operating margins and financial results depends primarily on the Company’s ability to adjust selling prices to its customers, such that increases and decreases in the price of copper are fully reflected in those selling prices. Most of our sales of manufactured products reflect the cost of copper used to manufacture those products at the time the products are ordered. In the ordinary course of business we maintain inventories of raw materials and finished products reasonably necessary for the conduct of our business. These inventories typically reflect the cost of copper prevailing in the market at the time of purchase. A long-term decrease in the price of copper would require the Company to revalue its inventory at periodic intervals to the then net realizable value, which could be below cost. Copper prices have been subject to considerable volatility and it is not always possible to manage our copper purchases and inventory so as to neutralize the impact of copper price volatility. Accordingly, significant volatility in copper prices could have an adverse effect on our operations. No assurance can be given that such volatility will not recur. Risks related to our Customer Base and our Geographic Markets 15 Our sales of manufactured and distributed products are made primarily to customers that use our products as components in their own products or in construction or infrastructure projects in which they participate. The volume of our sales is dependent largely on general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete, including how much our customers invest in their own product manufacturing or project development. Decreases in economic activity and investment in the markets where we operate generally will result in lower sales volume and lower net income for the Company. Risks Relating to China We conduct substantial business operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are likely to be materially impacted by economic, legal and other developments in China. Economic Reform Measures in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition In recent years, the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the economy and a high level of management autonomy. While such economic reform measures are generally viewed as a positive development for foreign businesses investing or establishing operations in China, the reforms are at an early stage and there is not sufficient administrative or judicial precedent to permit the Company to determine with any degree of certainty how the reforms will impact our business in China. PRC Civil Law System May Limit the Company’s Remedies The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the central government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. In particular, legislation over the past decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. As foreign investment laws and regulations in China are relatively new and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. PRC Control over the Convertibility of Currency May Restrict the Payment of Dividends The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in the PRC to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. 16 PRC Regulation of Telecommunications Industry May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition In addition, the PRC government has considerable control over the structure and overall development of the telecommunications industry in the PRC. Purchasers of our telecommunications cable in China are subject to extensive regulation by and under the supervision of the primary telecommunications industry regulator in China, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (the “MIIT”), which was created by the State Council of the PRC in March 2008 to assume, among other things, the duties of the former Ministry of Information Industry. The MIIT is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. Other PRC governmental authorities also regulate tariff policies, capital investment and foreign investment in the telecommunications industry. As a result of its accession to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) and the adoption of the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises in January 2002, which implement its commitments to the WTO, the Chinese government has agreed to gradually liberalize the various segments and regions of the telecommunications market to foreign telecommunications operators. Currently, however, the MIIT has only granted licenses to operate fixed-line telecommunications networks (which use our telecommunications cables) to certain domestic entities. As a result, the business of our companies in China may be more dependent on the political stability of the country and continuity of government policy than if there were more consumers of telecommunications cable and if the government-related entities were not so closely involved in the telecommunications industry. Future changes to the regulations and policies governing the telecommunications industry in China, including possible future industry restructurings, may have a material adverse effect on our business. Political or Social Instability in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition Political or social instability in China could also adversely affect our business operations or financial condition. In particular, adverse public health epidemics or pandemics in China could not only interfere with our ability to operate our PRC subsidiaries, but could also affect the country’s overall economic growth, which could in turn affect the sales of our products in China. In addition, as our corporate headquarters are located in Taipei, any escalation in political tensions between the PRC and the government of Taiwan could impact adversely our ability to manage our Chinese operations efficiently or without third party interference. Inflation in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may increase our costs. If inflation is significant, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. PRC Power Shortages and Lack of Insurance May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system at certain of our production facilities in China. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice thereof. Any power shortage, brownout or 17 blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We note that we consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and we currently have a backup power system at certain of our production facilities in China. PRC Tax Treatments May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition Certain of our PRC companies enjoy preferential tax treatments, in the form of reduced tax rates or tax holidays, provided by the PRC government or its local agencies or bureaus. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC, or NPC, passed the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”). Under the New EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the then current tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, that were receiving preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities at the time the New EIT Law became effective. Enterprises that are subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate lower than 25% may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the New EIT Law. Enterprises that are currently entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises otherwise classified as such “encouraged” high-tech enterprises will be entitled to a 15% EIT rate. On April 14, 2008, the Measures for the Recognition and Administration of New and High-tech Enterprises (the “Measures”), were promulgated jointly by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the PRC, the Ministry of Finance of the PRC and the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC and became retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Under the Measures, the term “high-tech enterprise” is defined as a resident enterprise that has been registered in the PRC (excluding Hong Kong, Macao or Taiwan) for more than one year, conducts business in the new and high-tech fields encouraged by government as listed in an appendix to the Measures, continuously undertakes research and development and technology conversion, and relies on self-owned intellectual property rights as the basis of its business operation. Such new and high-tech enterprises may apply for tax incentives. Pacific Electric Wire & Cable (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. (“PEWS”) is the only subsidiary of the Company in the PRC that qualifies for these tax incentives provided under the Measures. The income tax rate of PEWS under the revised tax incentive regulations was 20% in 2009, and is scheduled to be 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012. The New EIT Law and any other changes to our effective tax rate could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy these preferential tax treatments in the future. The discontinuation or reduction of these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent Labor Law Legislation in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning 18 overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for ten years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Such employment contracts with qualifying workers would not be terminable if, for example, the Company determined to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Any of the Company’s staff employed to work exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new law and thus, the Company’s ability to adjust the size of its operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns has been curtailed. Accordingly, if the Company faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to the Company’s business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, this new labor law has affected labor costs of our customers which may result in a decrease in such customers’ production and a corresponding decrease in their purchase of our products. Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risks Changes in exchange rates influence our results of operations. Our principal operations are located in Thailand, Singapore and China, and a substantial portion of our revenues is denominated in Baht, Singapore dollars or Renminbi. Nearly all of the raw materials for these operations are imported and paid for in U.S. dollars and a substantial portion of our future capital expenditures are expected to be in U.S. dollars. We require a significant amount of U.S. dollars for our ongoing equipment upgrade and maintenance programs. Any devaluation of the Baht, the Singapore dollar or Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would increase the effective cost of foreign manufacturing equipment and the amount of foreign currency denominated expenses and liabilities and would have an adverse impact on our operations. Forward foreign exchange contracts are used on a selective basis to hedge foreign exchange risk, but they do not provide any assurance that we will not incur substantial losses in the event of a devaluation of the Baht, Singapore dollar or Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Although our reporting currency is U.S. dollars, the functional currency of our Thai operations, which accounted for 32.6% of our sales in 2009, is the Baht, the functional currency of our Chinese operations (except for PEWS and CCH HK which are in US$ and account for 17.8%), which accounted for 13.6% of our sales in 2009, is the Renminbi, and the functional currency of our Singapore operations, which accounted for 26.6% of Company sales (including sales of Distributed Products and revenues from SDI project engineering) in 2009, is the Singapore dollar. The functional currency for Australian operation is in Australian dollar and account for 9.4% of total Company sales in 2009. Accordingly, the functional currency accounts of these operations are all translated into U.S. dollars utilizing, for the year, the balance sheet exchange rate for balance sheet accounts, and an average exchange rate for the year for the income statement accounts. Such translation of the functional currency accounts is recognized as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Any devaluation of the Baht, Singapore dollar or Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our financial performance measured in U.S. dollars. Substantially all of the revenues of our operations in China are denominated in Renminbi (with the exception of PEWS and CCH HK). The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies fluctuates and is subject to changes in Chinese and international political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of currencies. The PRC government has since made and in the future may make further adjustments to the exchange rate system. The net effect of these adjustments has been to increase the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. However, the Chinese government is under continuing pressure from the governments 19 of its major trading partners to further increase the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other global currencies or to allow the global currency markets to determine the comparative value of the Renminbi against freely-traded global currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect the value, translated or converted into U.S. dollars, of our net assets, earnings and any declared dividends payable by our operating subsidiaries and joint ventures in China. We cannot assure you that any future movements in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Competition The wire and cable industry in the Asia Pacific region is highly competitive. Our competitors include a large number of independent domestic and foreign suppliers. Certain competitors in each of our markets have substantially greater manufacturing, sales, research and financial resources than we do. We and other wire and cable producers increasingly compete on the basis of product quality and performance, reliability of supply, customer service and price. To the extent that one or more of our competitors is more successful with respect to the primary competitive factors, our business could be adversely affected. Risks associated with Required Productivity Increases Our business strategy includes a focus on increasing profitability through increased efficiency and productivity. In the event we are not able to implement measures to increase efficiencies and productivity, we may be limited in achieving increased profitability or may become less profitable. Moreover, productivity increases are linked to capacity utilization rates. A drop in the utilization rate of our manufacturing capacity would adversely impact productivity. Indebtedness As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a total of $279.8 million credit line available to itself, spreading over 22 banks aggregated for all the regions/territories in which we operate. Out of $279.8 million in available credit, $211.2 million was unused. The Company, collectively and on individual basis, is not highly leveraged and it is not likely to become highly leveraged just because it has over 75% of the credit facilities unutilized. Weighted average borrowing rate, for all the outstanding loans combined, would sum up to be 2.6%, which runs slightly lower than like-kind borrowing rates in the marketplace, i.e., three month LIBOR of 0.33% plus 2.5%. None of the loan agreements would prohibit the companies from making acquisitions or paying dividends. Composite Services Agreement with PEWC We engage in transactions in the ordinary course of business with PEWC, including the purchase of certain raw materials and the distribution of PEWC products in various countries in the Asia Pacific region. We and PEWC have entered into a composite services agreement dated November 7, 1996, as amended and supplemented (the “Composite Services Agreement”), which contains provisions that define our relationship and the conduct of our respective businesses and confers certain preferential benefits on us. The Composite Services Agreement is renewable at our option and is currently in force. However, we are unable to predict whether PEWC would, at some future date, seek to limit, or be unable to perform in whole or in part, the business it conducts with the Company pursuant to the terms of the Composite Services Agreement. Risks Relating to Thailand A substantial portion of our Thai operations, which accounted for approximately 32.9% of our net sales in 2009, consists of the manufacture of telecommunications and power cable and sales of those products for use in large-scale telecommunications projects and various construction projects in Thailand. As a result, our future performance will depend in part on the political situation in Thailand and the general state of the Thai 20 economy. Recent political upheaval in Thailand has resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduced volume, or cancellation or suspension, of contracts with the Thai government, a significant customer of the Company. The Company’s Thai operations are increasingly vulnerable to uncertainties with regard to payment for current sales and the award of future contracts in view of the ongoing political crisis in Thailand. Additionally, in recent years the Thai economy has been highly cyclical and volatile, depending for economic growth in substantial part on a number of government initiatives for economic expansion. However, the Baht remains volatile and subject to significant fluctuations in relation to the U.S. dollar. Such fluctuations in the value of the Baht may negatively impact our performance. Environmental Liabilities We are subject to certain environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances used by us. A risk of environmental liability could arise from our manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge by us of a hazardous substance. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. Alternative Transmission Technologies Our fiber optic and copper-based telecommunications business is subject to competition from other transmission technologies, principally wireless-based technologies. Fiber optic cable is presently being used in telecommunications trunks and feeder cable businesses and minimally in the access cable business. In the Asia Pacific markets where we compete, wireless telecommunications businesses have sometimes made substantial inroads in early emerging markets where sufficient funding may not then be available to install the infrastructure necessary for market-wide fixed line telecommunications. In addition, the ease of use of wireless telecommunications may make that medium an attractive alternative in circumstances where access to fixed line telecommunications is limited. While these technologies do present significant competition in the markets in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, the Company believes that demand for its fixed wire products will remain strong. However, no assurance can be given that the future development and use of such alternative technologies will not adversely affect our results of operations. International Business Risks We are subject to risks specific to our international business operations, including: the risk of supply disruption, production disruption or other disruption arising from the outbreak of highly infectious or communicable diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, swine influenza or pandemics of a similar nature; the risk of potential conflict and further instability in the relationship between Taiwan and the PRC; risks related to national and international political instability, such as disruptions to business activities and investment arising out of the political unrest and turmoil currently occurring in Thailand; risks related to the recent global economic turbulence and adverse economic developments in a number of Asian markets; unpredictable consequences on the economic conditions in the U.S. and the rest of the world arising from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S. and other military or security operations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or legal uncertainties regarding tax regimes; tariffs and other trade barriers, including current and future import and export restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations in countries such as Singapore, the PRC, Thailand and Taiwan; risks that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will make our products comparatively more expensive; limited ability to enforce agreements and other rights in foreign countries; changes in labor conditions; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; limitation on imports or exports and the possible expropriation of private enterprises; and 21 reversal of the current policies (including favorable tax and lending policies) encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. Although we have not experienced any serious harm in connection with our international operations, we cannot assure you that such problems will not arise in the future. 