Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before you decide to buy our Common Shares. If any one of these risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition, results and performance could be seriously harmed and/or the price of our Common Shares might significantly decrease. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 20-F are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, condition (financial or otherwise) and the value of any investment in our common shares. 3.3.1 The auditors’ reports included in this annual report are prepared by relying on audit work which is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection - 9 - Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because the Company has substantial operations within China, our auditor relied on its China affiliates to perform the audit on the Company’s consolidated financial statements in so far as they relate to the condition (financial and otherwise) or results of operations of the Company in China and its overall impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Company as a whole. The PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditor’s affiliates in China as it is prohibited by the China authorities. Investors should be mindful that our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. The lack of PCAOB’s inspection of the audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating the audit work of any auditor that is performed in China including the audit work performed by our auditor. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the quality of our consolidated financial statements. 3.3.2 Risks Related to the Continuing Impacts of the Global Economic and Financial Crisis Shortly after the 2008 global financial and economic crises, the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank (the “U.S. Fed”) and the central banks of most of the leading industrialized nations lowered their short-term interest rates to near zero in an effort to stimulate borrowing and increase economic activity. The U.S. Fed and certain other of those central banks also undertook a series of government bond repurchase programs to enhance market liquidity and to maintain a very low interest rate environment. The extremely low cost of borrowing, which has continued for an extremely long period of time, has enhanced liquidity and facilitated borrowing to stimulate investment. Some economists and policymakers have expressed concern that this artificially low interest rate environment will have negative repercussions once interest rates start to rise. Recently, the U.S. Fed and certain other central banks have curtailed their bond repurchase programs and indicated that one or more increases in short-term borrowing rates may be implemented in 2015 or shortly thereafter. An increase in U.S dollar borrowing costs could adversely affect our business in the four Asian markets where we have operating plants (Thailand, China, Singapore and Australia). Our financial statements for our operating subsidiaries in those markets are reported and denominated in local currencies and when translated into US dollars, our reporting currency, these operating subsidiaries would suffer a decrease in reported revenue and operating profits due to foreign currency translation if one takes into account only increased U.S. dollar borrowing costs. Moreover, our copper purchases are based on U.S. dollar quotations, which means the operating subsidiaries would have to pay more in local currency in order to meet their trade payable obligations. - 10 - Price Volatility for our Principal Raw Material A comparison of copper prices on the London Metals Exchange (the “LME”), between year-end 2013 and year-end 2014 shows that the average price for copper fell from $7,326 per metric ton to $6,860 per metric ton by year-end 2014, representing an 6.4% price decline. The effect of that decrease has impacted the Company’s ability to improve its overall financial performance. The decrease in the average LME copper price over 2014 was the principal contributing factor to the drop in 2014 of our ASP (average selling price) compared with 2013. Copper prices on the LME dropped during the course of the year 2014 to lower than $6,400 per ton. Consistent with industry practice, customers would expect that the selling prices of our products, particularly of copper based wires, would therefore be lower than our product prices at the end of 2013. The decrease in copper prices and other commodity prices also resulted in a decreased turnover for the entire year, as customers delayed placing orders with the Company or reduced the quantity of such orders in anticipation of a possible further reduction in copper prices. A further decrease in copper prices would likely have an adverse effect on the revenues of the Company. - 11 - The Company is unable to determine the precise impact of the volatility of copper prices, and the fragile state of the global recovery, on its operations and cash flow, since its operating results are also affected by factors that are, or may be, unrelated to the economic volatility and the downward pressures on commodity prices, such as the completion of routine purchase cycles by customers and the completion, expansion or contraction of large infrastructure projects. However, the Company is of the opinion that the falling copper prices have negatively affected the Company’s operations and cash flow. The Company believes that any efforts to forecast likely future performance with any degree of specificity would be fraught with uncertainty. Accordingly, the Company cautions against placing reliance on any efforts to identify trends for the foreseeable future. 3.3.3 Risks Related to the Common Shares and the Company Consolidation of Charoong Thai Group Accounts As of December 31, 2014, the Company effectively owned 50.93% of the issued and outstanding shares of Charoong Thai Wire and Cable Public Company Limited (“Charoong Thai” or “CTW”), a decrease from the Company’s initial ownership percentage which was attributable to the exercise of warrants or conversion of convertible securities by third parties. The Company’s present intention is to maintain majority ownership of the voting securities of Charoong Thai. However, there may be circumstances under which the Company cannot maintain majority ownership of Charoong Thai. In the event Charoong Thai were to make a further offering of voting securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for voting securities, and the Company was not in a position to fund or finance its participation in the offering, the ownership interest of the Company in Charoong Thai could fall below a level necessary for consolidated treatment, and the Company may lose the controlling interest in Charoong Thai. If that were the case, the accounts of the Charoong Thai group, which includes all of the Company’s Thailand operations, would not be consolidated under IFRS, but instead would be accounted for under the equity method. In such an event, the Company’s accounts would show a significant decrease in revenue and most categories of assets and liabilities, which events could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Common Shares. - 12 - Potential Illiquidity of Common Shares Approximately 75.5% of our Common Shares are either unregistered securities or registered securities held by affiliates (or were repurchased by the Company), which are subject to restrictions on trading. Accordingly, approximately 75.5% of our Common Shares are not fully liquid investments. APWC has been listed on NASDAQ since April 2011, the volume of trading in our Common Shares has picked up fractionally. However, the value of our Common Shares may be impacted negatively by their relative illiquidity when compared to the publicly-traded shares of many other issuers. Control of the Company Rests with Majority Shareholder; Controlled Company Exemption; Risks Related to PEWC As the majority shareholder, Pacific Electric Wire & Cable Co., Ltd. (“PEWC”), a Taiwanese company, has sufficient votes to control the outcome of any matters presented for a shareholder vote, including the election of a member of the Board of Directors. PEWC may vote its shares in the Company in the manner that it sees fit. In addition, subject to applicable securities laws, PEWC may sell, convey or encumber all or a portion of its ownership interest in the Company without regard to the best interests of the other shareholders of the Company except to the extent that it is: (i) prohibited from engaging in conduct oppressive to non-controlling interests under applicable law and (ii) required to comply with the terms of the Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement dated March 27, 2009 among the Company, PEWC and MSD Credit Opportunity Master Fund, L.P. (“MSDC” (and sometimes referred to as “COF”)) (as the assignee of SOF Investments, L.P. (“SOF”) effective July 2011) (the “Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement”), a Delaware limited partnership which owned, as of April 25, 2015, beneficially approximately 9.8% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares. - 13 - The Common Shares of the Company are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market tier. However, as the Company has a more than fifty percent (50%) shareholder, the Company is entitled to rely upon a “controlled company exemption” to the requirement that a company have a board of directors comprised of a majority of independent directors in order to be listed on NASDAQ. At present, a majority of the board of directors of the Company is affiliated with PEWC. PEWC was delisted from the Taipei Stock Exchange in 2003 following the disclosure of a major corporate scandal involving fraud and embezzlement by certain former executives of PEWC, one or more of whom are now serving prison sentences for their actions. Commencing in 2004, PEWC brought a number of actions in different jurisdictions against those former executives and others seeking to recover substantial assets that had been misappropriated. Some of those actions are ongoing. PEWC is still seeking to recover financially, and in terms of its market reputation, from the malfeasance of those former executives. The financial and governance problems experienced by PEWC increase the uncertainty regarding its ability to perform under the Composite Services Agreement between PEWC and the Company, although to date PEWC has met its obligations under that agreement. (See---section 10.3 Material Contracts). Limited Trading Volume Although our Common Shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market tier, the trading and demand for our Common Shares has been limited. As a consequence, shareholders may find that their ability to sell their Common Shares quickly or in substantial amounts is adversely affected by the limited public trading market. Thinly-traded equity can be more volatile than equity securities traded in an active trading market. The high and low daily closing prices for our Common Shares during the past 24 months (March 2013 – March 2015) were $4.25 and $2.27, respectively. In the future, our Common Shares may experience significant price fluctuations which could adversely affect the value of your ownership interest in the Company. - 14 - Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that such material weakness will be remediated or any additional material weakness will not be identified in the future. Our failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement in our financial statement reports or cause the Company to fail to provide material financial information in a timely manner, which may cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our Common Shares may be adversely affected. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Among other things, the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company, including us, to include a report from management on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In connection with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this annual report, our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that as of December 31, 2014, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. See “Item 15 — Disclosure Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In 2014, our material weakness was related to the aggregation of design deficiencies in our controls over the accounting and reporting of derivative transactions as well as the recurring lack of oversight by our personnel with satisfactory knowledge in SEC financial reporting requirements. Despite our ongoing efforts to remediate the material weaknesses and ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot assure you when the material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting will be successfully remediated. Further, we cannot assure you that additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any repeated failure to maintain satisfactory controls or implement new controls, as necessary, could result in additional material weaknesses which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the value of our Common Shares and could adversely impact the Company’s ability to remain current in its periodic report reporting under the Exchange Act. In those circumstances, the Company may be exposed to shareholder or regulatory actions. Further, any such failure could result in material misstatements and adversely affect the results of annual management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may require more resources and incur more costs than currently expected to remediate our identified material weakness or any additional material weakness that may be identified in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Reporting of Financial Results The Company is currently compliant with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. As a foreign private issuer, the Company is not required by the rules of the Commission to provide financial results on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. In addition, Bermuda law does not require the Company to provide interim financial information to its shareholders, whether on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. As such, investors may not have the same access to financial information of the Company as they customarily receive in the case of a domestic issuer disclosing quarterly results on a Form 10-Q. Under the NASDAQ rules; however, listed issuers are required to report semi-annual unaudited financial results, which the Company has been doing since its listing on NASDAQ. Potential Conflict of Certain Officers and Directors In March 2011, the Company appointed a third independent director as required by NASDAQ. Other than our three independent directors, all of the members of the Board of Directors are also directors or officers or otherwise affiliated with PEWC, the majority shareholder. Certain of our officers are also affiliated with PEWC. In each case, they may be subject to potential conflicts of interest. In addition, certain of our officers and directors who are also officers and/or directors of PEWC may be subject to conflicts of interest in connection with, for example, pursuing corporate opportunities in which we and PEWC or one of its affiliates have competing interests, and in the performance by us and PEWC of our respective obligations under existing agreements, including the Composite Services Agreement (discussed in section 10.3). In addition, some of these persons will devote time to the business and affairs of PEWC and its affiliates as is appropriate under the circumstances, which could reduce the amount of time available for overseeing or managing our business and affairs. Notwithstanding any such potential conflicts, however, such individuals, in their capacities as our directors and officers, are subject to fiduciary duties to our shareholders. - 15 - The Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), subjects our officers and directors to certain fiduciary standards in the exercise of their executive and management duties on behalf of the Company. Under the Companies Act, an officer of ours (which term includes our directors) is subject to a duty of care requiring him to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company in the discharge of his duties and to, among other things, give notice to the Board of Directors at the first opportunity of any interest he has in any material contract or proposed material contract with us or any of our subsidiaries. The Companies Act also prohibits us, subject to certain exceptions, from making loans to any directors without first obtaining the consent of shareholders holding in the aggregate not less than nine-tenths of the total voting rights of all the shareholders having the right to vote at any shareholders meeting. We do not make any loans to our directors or executive officers in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Obligations under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement Pursuant to the original shareholders agreement dated June 28, 2007 (the “Shareholders Agreement”), the Company granted to SOF certain rights and protections (now held by MSDC, as successor-in-interest to SOF, as explained below). Under the Shareholders Agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify SOF and its partners and certain of its affiliates (the “SOF Indemnified Persons”), for any additional taxes, interest, penalties and other costs that might be imposed upon or incurred by the SOF Indemnified Persons in the event that the Company is determined by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) to be a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) or a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”), as such terms are interpreted and defined under IRS rules and regulations. The Company has determined that it was not a CFC or PFIC at any time during the 2014 fiscal year and does not believe that it is likely to become a CFC or a PFIC; however, the Company cannot provide any assurances that it will not become a CFC or a PFIC in the future. - 16 - In addition, the Company granted certain registration rights to SOF with respect to its Common Shares (the “Registrable Securities”) in the Shareholders Agreement. In particular, the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and file, and cause to go effective, as soon as practicable, a shelf registration statement covering the resale of the Registrable Securities on a delayed or continuous basis. The Company also agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to keep its shelf registration statement effective until all Registrable Securities have been sold or until all Registrable Securities may be sold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). In addition, the Company granted to SOF two demand registration rights for underwritten offerings and customary piggyback registration rights with regard to the Registrable Securities. Moreover, the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Common Shares to be listed on a national “Securities Market,” which means any of the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (Global Market or Global Select Market), the American Stock Exchange LLC (now known as NYSE Amex Equities) or the New York Stock Exchange LLC, not later than January 31, 2009, subject to notice and a sixty (60) day cure period. All of the costs and expenses of the Company in connection with the fulfillment of its obligations under the Shareholders Agreement were to be paid by the Company, other than underwriting fees, discounts and commissions attributable to the sale of Common Shares held by SOF. Under the Shareholders Agreement, if the Company failed to fulfill its obligations thereunder, SOF would have a claim for damages against the Company. No such claim has been made. In addition, if the Company fulfilled its reasonable best efforts undertakings but failed to meet one or more of the stated goals, SOF would have a put right of their Common Shares to PEWC. In accordance with those terms, on February 2, 2009, SOF delivered to PEWC notice of its exercise of the put right under the Shareholders Agreement due to the fact that the Common Shares were not listed on a national Securities Market as of January 31, 2009. On March 27, 2009, SOF sold 51% of its Common Shares to PEWC pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement between those parties. Upon the consummation of that share purchase agreement, SOF held 1,355,415 registered Common Shares of the Company and PEWC held 1,410,739 registered Common Shares, respectively, representing 9.8% and 10.2% of the outstanding Common Shares, with PEWC holding an additional 7,664,615 unregistered Common Shares, giving it an aggregate of 65.6% of the total issued and outstanding Common Shares. In connection with this transaction, the Company, PEWC and SOF entered into the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, which among other things, granted to the Company an extension for listing the Common Shares on a national Securities Market until February 2011 and maintained for SOF the right to sell its remaining Common Shares to PEWC in the event the Company did not list its Common Shares on a national Securities Market by such time. In April 2011, the Common Shares of the Company were approved for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Markets tier, which tier does not fit within the definition of a national “Securities Market”, as provided in the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement. As of July 1, 2011, SOF transferred its Common Shares to MSDC, at which time MSDC executed a joinder agreement and became a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement and succeeded to the rights and interests of SOF thereunder. The Company is not aware that MSDC has taken any action with respect to the Common Shares held by it. The Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement also provides for those put, registration and indemnification rights set forth above in the description of the Shareholders Agreement and such rights now apply to MSDC in place of SOF. While the sale of Common Shares by MSDC to PEWC resulted in PEWC holding a higher concentration of Common Shares which may impact liquidity for the other shareholders, the Company does not believe that any definitive impact can be determined. - 17 - In addition, sales of Common Shares held by MSDC and registered under the shelf registration statement, or any registration statement that goes effective following an exercise of demand registration rights, will increase the number of Common Shares available for purchase in the public market and may adversely affect the value of the Common Shares held by other shareholders. Even without substantial sales by MSDC or PEWC of their respective Registrable Securities, the possibility of such sales may create a “market overhang” that has the effect of depressing the trading price of the Common Shares. - 18 - The Company has also granted to MSDC preemptive rights in the event of any issuance of additional equity securities (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities) by the Company, such that MSDC may subscribe for additional securities in order to maintain its then percentage ownership interest in the issued and outstanding equity securities of the Company. Holding Company Structure; Potential Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends We have no direct business operations other than our ownership of the capital stock of our subsidiaries and associate holdings. While we have no present intention to pay dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company our ability to pay dividends and meet our other obligations will depend upon the amount of distributions, if any, received from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. Our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants contained in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency earnings into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. For example, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our business entities in the PRC only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with relevant PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, such entities are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The foregoing restrictions may also affect our ability to fund operations of one subsidiary with dividends and other payments received from another subsidiary. Requirement to Maintain Effectiveness of the Registration Statement and to List on a National Securities Exchange; Effect of the Put of the MSDC Shares to PEWC Under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, MSDC has retained the right to sell its remaining Common Shares (the “MSDC Shares”) to PEWC if the Company does not achieve a listing on a national Securities Market within the time frame provided in the agreement or the Company fails to maintain a listing on a national Securities Market after it has been attained. The Company’s Common Shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market tier. In addition, the Company has agreed to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form F-3, for the benefit of MSDC, and if the Company fails to do so for any period of thirty (30) consecutive trading days or an aggregate of sixty (60) trading days during any twelve month period, then MSDC may, subject to compliance with notice and other procedural requirements, exercise a right to sell its remaining Common Shares to PEWC. At all times, the Company must exercise its reasonable best efforts to comply with its covenants under the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement. Otherwise, the Company could be subject to a damages claim by MSDC. - 19 - Corporate Matters; Limited Recourse; Limited Enforceability We are incorporated in and organized pursuant to the laws of Bermuda. In addition, all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and our material assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to realize against them in courts of the United States upon judgments predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. Even if investors are successful in realizing against such persons in courts of the United States, the laws of Taiwan may render such investors unable to enforce the judgment against the Company’s assets or the assets of its officers and directors. Also, investors may have difficulty in bringing an original action based upon the United States federal securities law against such persons in the Taiwan courts. Additionally, we have been advised by our legal counsel in Bermuda, Appleby (Bermuda) Limited, that there is doubt as to the enforcement in Bermuda, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws, although Bermuda Courts will enforce foreign judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters subject to certain conditions and exceptions. As a result, shareholders may encounter more difficulties in enforcing their rights and protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, the Board of Directors or controlling shareholders than they would if the Company were organized under the laws of the United States or one of the states therein, or if the Company had material assets located within the United States or some of the directors and officers were resident within the United States. See “Enforceability of Certain Civil Liabilities” for additional information. - 20 - 3.3.4 Risks Relating to Our Business Risks Relating to Copper Copper is the principal raw material we use, accounting for a majority of the cost of sales. We purchase copper at prices based on the average prevailing international spot market prices on the LME for copper for the one month prior to purchase, or the first five days of the current average copper price. The price of copper is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political conditions, supply and demand, inventory levels maintained by suppliers, actions of participants in the commodities markets and currency exchange rates. As with other costs of production, changes in the price of copper may affect the Company’s cost of sales. Whether this has a material impact on our operating margins and financial results depends primarily on the Company’s ability to adjust selling prices to its customers, such that increases and decreases in the price of copper are fully reflected in those selling prices. Most of our sales of manufactured products reflect the cost of copper used to manufacture those products at the time the products are ordered. In the ordinary course of business we maintain inventories of raw materials and finished products reasonably necessary for the conduct of our business. These inventories typically reflect the cost of copper prevailing in the market at the time of purchase. A long-term decrease in the price of copper would require the Company to revalue its inventory at periodic intervals to the then net realizable value, which could be below cost. Copper prices have been subject to considerable volatility and it is not always possible to manage our copper purchases and inventory so as to neutralize the impact of copper price volatility. Accordingly, significant volatility in copper prices could have an adverse effect on our operations. No assurance can be given that such volatility will not recur. Risks related to our Customer Base and our Geographic Markets Our sales of manufactured and distributed products are made primarily to customers that use our products as components in their own products or in construction or infrastructure projects in which they participate. The volume of our sales is significantly correlated with overall economic conditions in the markets in which we compete, including how much our customers invest in their own product manufacturing or project development. Increases or decreases in economic activity and investment in the markets where we operate generally will result in higher or lower sales volume and higher or lower net income for the Company. - 21 - Risks relating to Force Majeure Events Operations and other business conducted at our plants and other facilities are at risk to acts of god consisting of uncontrollable natural and climatic events (often referred to as force majeure events), such as the 2011 flooding in much of Thailand that severely disrupted our manufacturing operations at the Siam Pacific Electric Wire and Cable Ltd. (“Siam Pacific”) plant, a subsidiary 100% controlled by Charoong Thai. The flooding affected much of our Thai operations and forced the suspension of operations of Siam Pacific for a period of five months resulting in a 20% reduction in product sales in 2011. The adverse impact of the flooding carried over into 2012. Since then in Thailand the insurance coverage includes fire and theft, but does not include flood nor losses due to business interruption. Risks Relating to North Asia Region Economic Reform Measures in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition The PRC government has gradually moved away from a planned economic model and implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the economy and a high level of management autonomy. When General Secretary Xi Jinping took office in December 2012, the government decreased its focus on export-oriented activities and placed greater emphasis on building up rural areas in China, including integrating a number of primitive, largely inaccessible agricultural areas into the national economy. However, many of the reforms are unprecedented and may be subject to revision, modification or termination based on the outcomes of the reform efforts and other considerations, including their impact on societal stability. There is not sufficient administrative or judicial precedent to allow the Company to determine with any degree of certainty how the reforms will impact our business in China. - 22 - Any Decrease in Real Estate Development and Construction Activities in China May Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition Our wire and cable products are manufactured and sold in China and are used in the commercial and residential real estate industry and in infrastructure development. Therefore, the demand for our wire and cable products is affected by the pace of modernization and the growth of the real estate industry in China, which could in turn be affected by a number of factors, such as the level of governmental investment in infrastructure development, the strength of the commercial and residential real estate markets, the level of disposable income, consumer confidence, unemployment rate, interest rates, credit availability and volatility in the stock markets. To dampen an over-heated real estate market, the PRC government implemented a series of measures in the real estate market. Beginning in 2011, the PRC government began to curtail real estate credit and the credit curtailment policy remains ongoing for the present. The real estate market in China may also be negatively affected by the reform of the real estate tax system in respect of levying real estate tax on individually owned real estate which is not used for a business purpose, which has already been implemented by certain local government authorities and may be expanded nationwide sometime in the future. Any decrease in commercial and residential real estate development and construction activities would certainly affect the demand for our manufactured products and may affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The PRC Legal System May Limit the Company’s Remedies The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since the late 1970s, the PRC central government has promulgated a large volume of laws and regulations governing economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. In particular, since reforms were first introduced in 1979, the PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections provided to various forms of foreign investment in China. Foreign investment laws and regulations in China are evolving and the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Accordingly, enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. As the PRC legal system continues to evolve, we cannot predict future developments in the PRC legal system, including promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation and enforcement thereof. - 23 - Uncertainties Exist with respect to the Enactment Timetable, Interpretation and Implementation of Draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may affect the Company’s Corporate Governance On January 19, 2015, the PRC Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed PRC Foreign Investment Law, aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The PRC Ministry of Commerce is currently soliciting comments on this draft and uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially affect our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required for each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. - 24 - PRC Regulations of Loans to and Direct Investment in PRC Entities by Offshore Holding Companies may delay or prevent us from making Loans or additional Capital Contributions to our PRC Subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business We conduct substantial business operations in China. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Loans by APWC or any of our offshore subsidiaries to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. Such loans to any of our PRC subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”). The statutory limit for the total amount of foreign debts of a foreign-invested enterprise is the difference between the amount of total investment as approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart and the amount of registered capital of such foreign-invested enterprise. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular No. 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how converted Renminbi may be used. This notice requires that the Renminbi capital converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the Company’s approved business scope. As a result, SAFE Circular No. 142 may impose an additional layer of bureaucratic compliance and could, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to transfer the proceeds from our non-RMB denominated borrowing arrangements outside of the PRC to our PRC subsidiaries, which may, absent the requisite approvals from SAFE, adversely affect the continued growth of our business. - 25 - Furthermore, the SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular No. 45 on November 9, 2011, which, among other things, restricted a foreign-invested enterprise from using the Renminbi capital converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial companies. Violations of these circulars may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulation. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE Circulars referred to above, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries and conversion of such loans or capital contributions into Renminbi. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. Political or Social Instability in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition Political or social instability in China could also adversely affect our business operations or financial condition. In addition, adverse public health epidemics or pandemics in China could not only interfere with our ability to operate our PRC subsidiaries, but could also affect the country’s overall economic growth, which could in turn affect the sales of our products in China. Growing environmental awareness and concern over the deterioration of the quality of the environment in China, including air and water quality, could dampen domestic industrial growth and reduce foreign investor interest in PRC investment. In addition, as our corporate headquarters are located in Taipei, any escalation in political tensions between the PRC and the government of Taiwan could impact adversely our ability to manage our Chinese operations efficiently or without third party interference. - 26 - Inflation in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation, coupled with a rise in the value of RMB against the U.S. dollar. The PRC government has publicly announced its commitment to control inflation, and the anti-inflation policies of the PRC government may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may increase our costs. If inflation is significant, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. PRC Power Shortages and Lack of Insurance May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date, particularly in Shenzhen where numerous clusters of factories are situated. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages, but often power shortages or outages occur unexpectedly for various periods of time. We currently have a backup power system at certain of our production facilities in China. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice thereof. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and foreign insurance companies are permitted to operate only in a certain large cities. PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we have limited business liability and disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. - 27 - PRC Tax Treatments May Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition Under current tax law in China, foreign-invested enterprises no longer receive more favorable tax treatment than domestic enterprises. China has in place a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and has revoked the prior tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. Dividends Payable by Our PRC Subsidiaries to Their Respective Offshore Investors May Be Subject to PRC Withholding Taxes Under Chinese tax law and related regulations, dividends, interests, rent or royalties payable by a foreign-invested enterprise, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors, and proceeds from any such foreign enterprise investor’s disposition of assets (after deducting the net value of such assets) are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless the foreign enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. Undistributed profits earned by foreign-invested enterprises prior to January 1, 2008 are exempted from any withholding tax. Bermuda, where APWC, the ultimate owner of our PRC subsidiaries and investments, is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Hong Kong, where Crown Century Holdings Limited (“CCH HK”), the sole shareholder in Pacific Electric Wire and Cable (Shenzhen) (“PEWS”), is incorporated, has a tax arrangement with China that provides for a 5% withholding tax, or 10% for 2013 and onwards, on dividends subject to certain conditions and requirements, such as the requirement that the Hong Kong resident enterprise own at least 25% of the PRC enterprise distributing the dividend at all times within the 12-month period immediately preceding the distribution of dividends and be a “beneficial owner” of the dividends. If our PRC subsidiaries declare and distribute profits earned after January 1, 2008 to their respective offshore investors in the future, such payments will be subject to withholding tax. - 28 - Labor Law Legislation in the PRC May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations or Financial Condition The PRC Labor Contract Law formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for ten years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Such employment contracts with qualifying workers would not be terminable if, for example, the Company determined to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. Under the current law, downsizing by 10% or more (or more than 20 persons) may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Any of the Company’s staff employed to work exclusively within the PRC are covered by the law and thus, the Company’s ability to adjust the size of its operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns has been curtailed. Accordingly, if the Company faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to the Company’s business, this law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, this law has affected labor costs of our customers which could result in a decrease in such customers’ production and a corresponding decrease in their purchase of our products. Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risks Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates influence our results of operations. Our principal operations are located in the three geographic regions that have now been designated as our revised business segments; namely, the North Asia region, the Thailand region and the Rest of the World (“ROW”) region. See---section 4.1.1---Certain Recent Events. A substantial portion of our aggregate revenues is denominated in the following currencies: Baht, Australian dollars, Singapore dollars or Renminbi. Nearly all of the raw materials for these operations are imported and paid for in U.S. dollars and a substantial portion of our future capital expenditures are expected to be in U.S. dollars. We require a significant amount of U.S. dollars for our ongoing equipment upgrade and maintenance programs. Any devaluation of any of the Baht, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar or the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would increase the effective cost of foreign manufacturing equipment and the amount of our foreign currency denominated expenses and liabilities and would have an adverse impact on our operations. - 29 - Although our reporting currency is U.S. dollars, the functional currency of our Thailand region, which accounted for 37.0% of our sales in 2014, is the Thai Baht. The functional currencies of our ROW region, which accounted for 37.6% of sales in 2014, are the Australia dollar and the Singapore dollar. The functional currencies for our North Asia operations, which, in total accounted for 25.4% of our sales in 2014, are divided into two groups: for Shandong Pacific Rubber Cable Company, Ltd. (“SPRC”, equity investee with 25% equity owned by APWC, accounting under equity method), and Shanghai Asia Pacific Electric Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Yayang”), their functional currency is Renminbi, while for CCH HK and PEWS their functional currency is U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the functional currency accounts of these operations are all translated into U.S. dollars utilizing the reporting date exchange rate for balance sheet accounts, and an average exchange rate for the year for the income statement accounts for the reporting purposes. Any devaluation of the Baht, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar, or the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our financial performance measured in U.S. dollars. Competition The wire and cable industry in the Asia Pacific region is highly competitive, and if we fail to successfully invest in and maintain product development, productivity improvements and customer service and support, sales of our products could be adversely affected. Our competitors include a large number of independent domestic and foreign suppliers. Certain competitors in each of our markets have substantially greater manufacturing, sales, research and financial resources than we do. We and other wire and cable producers compete primarily on the basis of product quality and performance, reliability of supply, customer service and price. To the extent that one or more of our competitors are more successful with respect to the primary competitive factors, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s profit could be adversely impacted if low margin wire and cable manufacturers in China enter into the markets where we operate. With respect to certain of our products, they are made to common specifications and may be interchangeable with the products of certain of our competitors. Since customers could potentially substitute our products with those of our competitors, customer loyalty is an important pillar of our business’s competitive position. - 30 - Highly Concentrated Markets Failure to properly execute customer projects in certain highly concentrated markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain similar contracts from other customers in the market and may result in material financial penalties. In certain markets, sales of manufactured products are highly concentrated in large state-controlled entities or large private infrastructure developers. As those markets are often highly concentrated, the loss of individual customers in such markets may have a material adverse impact on our position in that market as a whole. Risks associated with Required Productivity Increases Our business strategy includes a focus on increasing profitability through increased efficiency and productivity. In the event we are not able to implement measures to increase efficiencies and productivity, we may be limited in achieving increased profitability or may become less profitable. Moreover, productivity increases are linked to capacity utilization rates. A drop in the utilization rate of our manufacturing capacity would adversely impact productivity. Employees’ Unions Some of the operating subsidiaries of the Company have a large number of employees that are members of employees’ unions. Failure to successfully negotiate and/or renew collective agreements, strikes, or other labor disputes could result in a disruption of our operations. The Company believes that approximately 100% and 99% of the employees of PEWS and Shanghai Yayang, respectively, are members of their respective Company Workers’ Unions. Approximately 16% of the employees of APEC are members of the Australian Workers’ Union. While the Company has never experienced a strike or other disruption due to labor disputes, the possibility exists that a labor dispute could lead to a disruption of our operations, hindering our ability to serve our customers, and ultimately having a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. - 31 - Information Systems Failure or disruptions of our information systems could have a material impact on our business and operations. The Company heavily relies on information systems and technology for, amongst other tasks, processing customer orders, shipment of products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business. Disruptions in our system, whether from external or internal causes, could have a significant material adverse impact on our business. Specifically, a disruption in our systems could adversely affect our ability to properly serve our customers and as a result, could affect our customer loyalty and ultimately, have an adverse impact on our business. The Company is actively engaged in the monitoring of our information systems to manage the risk of security threats and sophisticated computer crime and to reduce the risk of disruption to the integrity of our data. Employees and Personnel If we fail to retain our key employees and attract qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees, without a properly implemented transition plan, could have an adverse affect on operations. The loss of executive officers or key employees could impair customer relationships and result in the loss of vital industry knowledge, expertise, and experience. There is also a risk of losing key employees to our competitors, which can lead to the theft of trade secrets as well as competitors gaining valuable information about our manufacturing process. The Company’s future success depends on its continued ability to attract and retain talented and qualified personnel. Indebtedness As of December 31, 2014, the Company had a total of $278.4 million in credit available to itself, or one or more of its operating subsidiaries. The available credit is provided by a total of 16 banks in the various regions/territories in which we operate. Out of total available credit, $168.2 million was unused and available for borrowing. The Company, collectively and on an individual basis is not highly leveraged and management does not consider it to be likely that the Company will become highly leveraged. The weighted average borrowing rate, for all the outstanding loans combined, was 3.57% for 2014, which runs, at this point in time, slightly higher than like-kind borrowing rates that might be available to us in the marketplace, i.e., three month LIBOR (data of April 7, 2015) of 0.27% plus 2.5%. - 32 - Impairment Charges As a result of market and industry conditions or in the event we close any of our manufacturing facilities, we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets, including goodwill. To the extent the Company must incur goodwill impairment on our long-lived assets, there may be an adverse effect on our financial condition, including earnings per share and other financial results. As of December 31, 2014, the Company performed impairment testing for SPRC, equity investee with 25% equity owned by APWC, accounting under equity method, as SPRC had been reporting losses in the past few years owning to slower economy growth and sluggish mining business in China in recent years. The Company determined that no impairment loss was recognized against SPRC. Nevertheless, the Company cannot guarantee that no impairment loss will incur in the future for various reasons including, but not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment to our business or a material adverse change in our relationship with our clients. If we recognize significant impairment charges, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Composite Services Agreement with PEWC We engage in transactions in the ordinary course of business with PEWC, including the purchase of certain raw materials and the distribution of PEWC products in various countries in the Asia Pacific region. We and PEWC have entered into a composite services agreement dated November 7, 1996, as amended and supplemented (the “Composite Services Agreement”), which contains provisions that define our relationship and the conduct of our respective businesses and confers certain preferential benefits on us. The Composite Services Agreement is renewable at our option and is currently in force. However, we are unable to predict whether PEWC would, at some future date, seek to limit, or be unable to perform in whole or in part, the business it conducts with the Company pursuant to the terms of the Composite Services Agreement. Risks Relating to Thailand Region A substantial portion of our Thai operations, which accounted for approximately 37.0% of our total net sales in 2014, consists of the manufacture of telecommunications and power cable and sales of those products for use in large-scale telecommunications projects and various construction projects in Thailand. As a result, our future results will depend in part on the political situation in Thailand and the general state of the Thai economy. With the political tension remaining high in Thailand, the continuing political uncertainty and the risk of further social unrest tends to lessen the attractiveness of the local market for foreign investment, and diminishes the focus of the government on infrastructure development, both of which considerations may adversely impact on the volume of business of the Company’s actual and potential customers in the Thai market. - 33 - The Company’s Thai operations remain vulnerable to uncertainties with regard to payment for current sales and the award of future contracts in view of the ongoing political instability in Thailand. Additionally, in recent years the Thai economy has been highly cyclical and volatile, depending for economic growth in substantial part on a number of government initiatives for economic expansion. Moreover, the Baht remains volatile and subject to significant fluctuations in relation to the U.S. dollar. Such fluctuations in the value of the Baht may negatively impact our performance. Environmental Liabilities We are subject to certain environmental protection laws and regulations governing our operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances used by us. A risk of environmental liability could arise from our manufacturing activities in the event of a release or discharge by us of a hazardous substance. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in our current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by us that could materially and adversely affect our financial results, cash flows or financial condition. Alternative Transmission Technologies Our fiber optic and copper-based telecommunications business is subject to competition from other transmission technologies, principally wireless-based technologies. Fiber optic cable is presently being used in telecommunications trunks and feeder cable businesses and minimally in the access cable business. In November 2011 we sold our entire 51% equity interest in Shandong Pacific Fiber Optic Cable Co., Ltd. (“SPFO”) to a group of buyers in China for a cash consideration of $2.9 million, due to its low profit margin generation and fierce competition in the local fiber optic cable market. In January 2013 we completely disposed of another 49% ownership associate in Shangdong China: Shangdong Huayu Pacific Fiber Optics, thus we entirely pulled out of the fiber optics business in China. Wireless telecommunications businesses have sometimes made substantial inroads in early emerging markets where sufficient funding may not then be available to install the infrastructure necessary for market-wide fixed line telecommunications. In addition, the ease of use of wireless telecommunications may make that medium an attractive alternative in circumstances where access to fixed line telecommunications is limited. While these technologies do present significant competition in the markets in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, the Company believes that demand for its fixed wire products will remain strong. However, no assurance can be given that the future development and use of such alternative technologies will not adversely affect our results of operations. - 34 - International Business Risks We are subject to risks specific to our international business operations, including: the risk of supply disruption; production disruption or other disruption arising from events of force majeure, such as the severe weather and climatic events that caused the 2011 floods in Thailand; the outbreak of highly infectious or communicable diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, swine influenza or pandemics of a similar nature; the risk of potential conflict and further instability in the relationship between Taiwan and the PRC; risks related to national and international political instability, such as disruptions to business activities and investment arising out of the political unrest and turmoil in Thailand; risks related to the recent global economic turbulence and adverse economic developments in a number of Asian markets; risks related to changes in governmental or private sector policies and priorities with respect to infrastructure investment and development; unpredictable consequences on the economic conditions in the U.S. and the rest of the world arising from terrorist attacks, and other military or security operations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or legal uncertainties regarding tax regimes; tariffs and other trade barriers, including current and future import and export restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations in countries such as Australia, Singapore, the PRC, Thailand and Taiwan; risks that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will make our products comparatively more expensive; limited ability to enforce agreements and other rights in foreign countries; changes in labor conditions; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; limitation on imports or exports and the possible expropriation of private enterprises; and reversal of the current policies (including favorable tax and lending policies) encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. Although we have not experienced any serious harm, except for the flooding situation in Thailand in 2011, in connection with our international operations, we cannot assure you that such problems will not rise in the future. - 35 - 