ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. However, these risk factors are not exhaustive, as new risks emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a predictor of actual results. Our future operating results are uncertain and may fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. If our operating results in any future period fluctuate, we may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. It is difficult to predict the timing or amount of our revenues because: • we generate a significant percentage of our revenues from a limited number of customers; • our sales cycles can be lengthy and variable; • Thorough QTc studies are typically of large volume and of short duration; and • sponsors and CROs may unexpectedly cancel, postpone or reduce the size of clinical trials. We make decisions on operating expenses based on anticipated revenue trends and available resources. We also incur expenses researching and manufacturing certain diagnostic devices and educating and providing information to our customer base, via consultations, without any obligation by our customer to purchase our product and service solutions. Because many of our expenses are fixed and we are committed to making a significant investment in our organization and in marketing our product and service solutions, delays in recognizing revenues could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. If we fail to generate the contract signings that we expect or the anticipated revenues from such signings, we may fail to meet financial guidance that we have provided, or may provide in the future, to the public. Failure to meet financial guidance could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and affect our ability to raise capital which could reduce our cash reserves and limit our capital spending. If general economic conditions deteriorate or fail to improve, our operations may be affected and/or we may be unable to secure future financing to make the necessary investments to grow our business. General business and economic conditions have deteriorated globally and to date there has only been moderate relief. Although we believe the fundamental drivers of our core business remain positive, a continued weakened global economy could have an impact on our future results of operations. There is no guarantee that the amounts in our backlog will ever convert to revenue. Should the current economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, the cancellation rates that we have historically experienced could continue or increase. While we believe our current financial condition is very strong and liquid, we have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. On May 28, 2010, we acquired RS for $82.7 million in cash. The acquisition and related transaction costs were financed from our existing cash and a portion of the $23.0 million drawn from our $40.0 million revolving credit facility. Future acquisitions or investments may reduce our readily available capital and require us to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to obtain any financing necessary to make investments in our technology and workforce, we may be unable to achieve the market growth that such investments were intended to generate. 17 Table of Contents If general economic conditions deteriorate or fail to improve, potential customers may be unable to get the necessary financing to conduct business and existing customers may fail to make timely payments for products we have sold or services that we have performed, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase overall revenues and our overall financial position. Many of our existing and potential customers, and in particular, development stage biopharmaceutical companies, depend on financing to conduct clinical trials and may be affected by poor economic conditions. If financing is unattainable or business is otherwise affected by a troubled economy, clinical trials may be delayed, which could affect our ability to sign new contracts and maintain or increase revenues. In addition, while we take reasonable precautions to avoid credit risk, some customers may have financial difficulties as a result of the lack of financing or the general poor economic conditions, which could result in delayed payments to us for the products we have sold or services we performed. Such delays in payments would result in higher accounts receivable balances and lower liquidity. In addition, this could result in us recording additional expense to write-off the accounts receivable balances remaining if payment is not likely. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause disruption of our business and loss of value or dilution to our stockholders. From time to time, we evaluate potential investments in, and acquisitions of, complementary technologies, services and businesses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. For example, we acquired CCSS and entered into a long-term strategic relationship with Healthcare Technology Systems, Inc. (HTS) in 2007 and acquired RS in 2010. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • managing the risks and challenges of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience, such as the respiratory services and device manufacturing markets we entered as a result of the RS acquisition; • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • the price we pay, the expense that we incur or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we eventually realize or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; • failure of a party to perform ancillary contractual obligations related to the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products. In addition, we could discover deficiencies withheld from us in an acquisition due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to the acquisition. These deficiencies could include problems in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and regulatory compliance, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill, as in the case of CCSS and RS, and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial condition and operating results. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, if we finance any future acquisitions by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. 18 Table of Contents Consolidation among our customers could cause us to lose customers, decrease the market for our product and service solutions and result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. Our customer base could decline because of consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our product and service solutions to new customers. Consolidation among biopharmaceutical and healthcare organizations and among CROs has accelerated in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, in times of a weakened economy, less stable companies, such as smaller biotechnology companies, may be at risk of being acquired. Our profitability will also suffer if we reduce our prices in response to competitive pressures without achieving corresponding reductions in our expenses. New companies or organizations that result from such consolidation may decide that our product and service solutions are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or the use of alternative systems. As these industries consolidate, competition to provide product and service solutions to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our product and service solutions. Also, if consolidation of larger customers occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we would be likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization’s revenues to achieve expected future growth. We depend entirely on the clinical trial market and a downturn in this market could cause our revenues and profitability to decrease. Our business depends entirely on the clinical trials that biopharmaceutical and healthcare organizations conduct. Our revenues and profitability will decline if there is less competition among biopharmaceutical and healthcare organizations, which could result in fewer products under development and decreased pressure to accelerate a product approval. Our revenues and profitability will also decline if the FDA or similar agencies in foreign countries modify their requirements, thereby decreasing the need for our solutions. Any other developments that adversely affect the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries generally, including federal or state health care reform, product liability claims, new technologies or products or general business conditions, could also decrease the volume of our business. From time to time studies for which we are contracted to provide our product and services solutions are delayed or postponed resulting in lower than expected revenues. We depend on the need for clinical trials in the area of pulmonary disease to continue and a downturn in this specific therapeutic area could cause our revenues and profitability to decrease. We provide biopharmaceutical and healthcare organizations an integrated set of products and services for the clinical evaluation of respiratory data. We have a preferred centralized spirometry vendor status with several of the top 20 biopharmaceutical companies where we provide respiratory, cardiac safety and ePRO products and services primarily in the therapeutic area for respiratory drugs. If there were significant developments in pharmacology or government regulation that significantly reduced or eliminated the need for further clinical trials for pulmonary disease, our revenue, net income and workforce would be adversely affected. Extensive governmental regulation of the clinical trial or device manufacturing processes could require costly modifications to our technology, adversely affect prospective customers’ willingness to use our product and service solutions and increase competition and reduce our market share. We may incur increased expenses or suffer a reduction in revenues if our product and service solutions do not comply with applicable government regulations or if regulations allow more competition in the marketplace. Conforming our product and service solutions to these guidelines or to future changes in regulation could substantially increase our expenses. In the United States and in foreign countries, regulatory authorities have also established other standards for conducting clinical trials leading to the approval of new products with which we must comply. We are subject to these regulations because our product and service solutions assist sponsors and CROs in conducting trials and preparing new drug or device applications. If a regulatory authority concludes that trials were not conducted in accordance with established requirements, it may take a variety of enforcement actions depending upon the nature of the violation and the applicable country. In the United States, these measures may 19 Table of Contents range from issuing a warning letter or seeking injunctive relief or civil penalties to recommending criminal prosecution, which could result in a prohibition of our continued participation in future clinical trials. Our customers and prospective customers will be less likely to use our product and service solutions if the product and service solutions do not comply with regulatory requirements in all countries where clinical trials are expected to take place or if we are precluded from participating in clinical trials in countries where trials will be conducted. In addition, changing regulatory requirements could provide an advantage to our competitors if our competitors are able to meet the requirements more rapidly or at lower cost. For example, in the May 12, 2005 ICH release, it was suggested that semi-automated processing of electrocardiograms may be found acceptable in certain instances and thereby replace the manual processing method. Semi-automated processing uses software algorithm-placed measurements that are later adjudicated by a cardiac specialist or physician with overall interpretation by a physician. Manual processing includes manually placed calipers to obtain interval duration measurements interpreted by a cardiologist. Since the 2005 release of the ICH guidance, drug sponsors have shifted towards semi-automated processing allowing more competitors to compete with us in offering this service and, as a result, we have reduced pricing to remain competitive. The effect of such actions has reduced our revenue and gross profit per transaction in prior years and could adversely affect us in the future. Our failure to maintain revenue and gross profit per transaction may affect our ability to achieve growth in services revenues and overall profitability from year to year. Our failure to show growth may also prevent us from meeting the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The ICH E14 guidance contained in the May 2005 release recommends either fully manual or manual adjudication (semi automatic) approaches for clinical trials in which the assessment of ECG safety is an important objective, such as the Thorough QTc study. If the Thorough QTc study is negative (i.e. the drug has no QT effect), routine ECG safety assessments in late phase clinical trials using fully automated readings may be adequate. If the Thorough QTc study is positive, (i.e. the drug has a QT effect), then intensive ECG monitoring should take place in future clinical trials. If drug sponsors shift towards fully-automated processing for routine or Thorough QTc studies, our future results of operations may be adversely affected as pricing may decline and additional competitors could enter the market. In December 2009, the FDA issued guidance related to ePRO. The guidance covered a number of concepts from instrument use and modification, content validity and reliability, clinical trial design and data analysis. In addition, the FDA has issued guidance specifically related to clinical trials regarding pulmonary disease. We must continue to adapt our processes in accordance with FDA guidance to meet our growth expectations. If we are unable to adapt our processes in accordance with FDA guidance, our service offerings will become obsolete, which would adversely affect our revenue and net income growth. In addition, if the FDA finds we are not operating in accordance with its guidance, the FDA may impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our clinical research services and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and services. Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies, including agencies in Germany where our manufacturing operations are located. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance for our new products, or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and if we do, such approval may: • take a significant amount of time, • require the expenditure of substantial resources, • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products; and • result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. 20 Table of Contents Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the FDA’s requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on FDA’s Form-483, warning letters or other forms of enforcement. Since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and may affect our ability to offer our clinical research services related to such products. Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. The FDA may recommend a different approach to measuring drug effects on the QT interval of an ECG which could make our systems and processes obsolete and adversely affect revenue and profitability. The FDA may recommend different approaches to pulmonary function testing which may make our current devices and processes obsolete and considerably decrease our revenues and profitability. The FDA has provided guidance reinforcing the need for routine cardiac safety testing as well as Thorough QTc testing for all compounds entering the blood stream. This testing is accomplished by measuring the QT/QTc interval prolongation on an ECG. We function as an ECG core lab and have developed our EXPERT® system and processes to receive the ECGs and obtain and report these measurements. It is possible that, in the future, the FDA may recommend different approaches to measuring drug effects on the QT interval which may diminish the need for an ECG core lab. This would considerably reduce the value of our existing systems and processes and would substantially decrease our revenues and profitability. In addition, it is possible that, in the future, the FDA may recommend different approaches to pulmonary function testing which may make our current devices and processes obsolete and considerably decrease our revenues and profitability. We have customers from whom we derive substantial revenue and therefore the loss of even a few of our customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We have one customer that represented approximately 28% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase from 18% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. While no other customer represented more than 10% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010, our next five largest customers in the aggregate represented approximately 31% of our total revenues for this same period. Based on RS’ historic customer base, we anticipate that the percentage of revenues represented by our largest customer and the next five largest customers will increase in 2011. If we lose all or a material amount of our revenues from any significant customers and do not replace them with revenues from new customers, our revenues will decrease and they may not be sufficient to cover our costs. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues and profitability from a limited number of customers. 21 Table of Contents Our failure to continue to expand our business or manage growth successfully could disrupt our business operations, increase our costs and delay implementation of our business strategies. Difficulties in managing future growth could disrupt our business operations, increase our costs and delay achievement of our business goals, making it more difficult for us to maintain profitability. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to expand and improve our field sales, marketing and services organization and our operations organization, both in the United States and throughout the world. In order to grow, we will need to hire additional personnel. There are a limited number of experienced personnel with an adequate knowledge of our industry, and competition for their services is intense. In addition, we may not be able to project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our product and service solutions accurately or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate the increases. The expansion of our foreign operations also will require us to assimilate differences in foreign business practices, overcome language barriers and hire and retain qualified personnel abroad. We may not be successful in competing against others providing similar product and service solutions, which could reduce our revenues, profitability and market share. If our product and service solutions do not achieve widespread acceptance by our customers, our revenues, profitability and market share will likely decline. Our competitors include other centralized clinical research diagnostic laboratories and CROs. Our targeted customers may decide to choose other product and service solutions generated internally by them or from another source. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases than we do. Further, certain drug development organizations may decide not to outsource all or a significant portion of the clinical research diagnostic activities associated with their clinical research programs, which could reduce our revenues, profitability and market share. Our failure to establish and maintain partnerships and other strategic alliances may delay the development of our product and service solutions, cause us to lose customers and prevent us from growing our business, any of which could also cause our stock price to decline. We have relationships with providers of clinical pharmacology services, hardware and software systems, telecommunications, web-hosting and development services, systems integration and website content that support our sales and marketing efforts by satisfying other needs of our existing customers that our solutions do not address and by providing us access to their customers as potential sources of new business. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our strategic partners, so they may cease doing business with us on relatively short notice. We may incur liability as a result of providing consulting and diagnostic analysis and interpretation services. We provide products for respiratory, cardiac safety and ePRO measurements as well as services that collect, transmit, analyze and process such data in connection with our customers’ clinical trials. It is possible that liability may be asserted against us and the physicians who provide services for us for failing to accurately diagnose a medical problem indicated by such diagnostic services or for failing to disclose a medical problem to the investigator responsible for the subject being tested. In addition, product liability claims could be asserted against us if our diagnostic devices fail to perform to their specification or to the expectation of our customers or their patients. If we are found liable, we may be forced to pay fines and damages and to discontinue a portion of our operations. The contractual protections included in our customer contracts and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to protect us against such liability. If the protections are not adequate, our profitability would be negatively impacted and also our stock price would likely fall. Our business could be seriously harmed by our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for specific components of our product and service solutions. We may increase our dependence on certain suppliers as we continue to develop and enhance our product and service solutions. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required components, reduced services capacity, price increases, delayed supplier performance and poor 22 Table of Contents component and services quality. For instance, we rely on a limited number of providers to supply ECG, Respiratory and ePRO equipment, software applications designed for the on-screen measurement of ECG signals and server facilities. If we are unable to obtain products and services from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we need, on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our service solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Moreover, delays or interruptions in our service, including without limitation delays or interruptions resulting from a change in suppliers, may reduce our revenues, cause customers to terminate their contracts and adversely affect our customer renewals. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or we were otherwise required to find alternative suppliers to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, sales of our solutions would be delayed. To qualify a new supplier and familiarize it with our solutions, quality standards and other requirements is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative relationships on acceptable terms. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair the delivery of customer data and harm our business. We host some of our software at third-party facilities. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster, technical or service lapses or other unanticipated problems at the facilities of our third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in our access and/or our customers’ access to their data from software hosted at these facilities. Our software and customer data may also be subject to sabotage, intentional acts of malfeasance and similar misconduct due to the nature of the Internet. In the past, Internet users have occasionally experienced difficulties with Internet and online services due to system or security failures. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our customers or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Further, in the event that we fail to meet the service requirements under our agreements with our customers, whether resulting from an interruption in service caused by our technology or that of a third-party provider, we could be subject to customer credits or termination of these customer contracts. The equipment that we manufacture, acquire and lease could malfunction or become obsolete due to technological advance. Malfunctions in the equipment may result in inaccurate or lost data. If we experience malfunctions or obsolescence, we may not be able to provide the quantity of equipment needed to service our customers. We may fail to obtain the necessary certifications for use of the equipment. Any such development would reduce our revenues and profitability and/or subject us to third party claims. We manufacture, acquire and lease equipment, which we provide to our customers to perform our service solutions. This equipment may malfunction resulting in inaccurate data or lost data. Such occurrence could cause significant study delays or possible discontinuance and may result in a third party claim against us. In addition, our equipment could become obsolete due to advances in technology and the introduction of newer equipment models prior to the time that we have fully depreciated the asset or fulfilled our lease obligations. This could result in us recording additional expense to write-off the book value of the equipment and failing to meet equipment demands. In addition, certifications are required for the use of certain equipment. We have been able to maintain such certifications in the past, but if the requirements for these certifications change or other factors lead to our failure to be compliant, we will lose the certifications and may not be able to satisfy the equipment needs of our customers, which may jeopardize our business relationship and our ability to continue providing products and services. As a result, we may lose clinical customers if adequate equipment is not available, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability and we may be subject to third party claims if we are unable to perform under existing contracts. Our equipment is subject to governmental regulation. In particular, the IEC 60601-1:2005 (3rd edition) was published in December 2005. In this publication, standards are listed as general requirements concerning basic safety and the essential performance of equipment. These new standards must be in place by June 1, 2012 in Europe and June 1, 2013 in the United States. If we are unable to adhere to this or other regulations, we will be unable to use our equipment for our clinical trials. As a result, we could be found in breach of existing customer contracts and/or unable to obtain new contracts, both of which will have a negative impact on earnings. 23 Table of Contents Capacity constraint or system or device failures could result in the loss of or liability to customers, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and reduce profitability. In the past, we have been able to staff for increasing workload demands in an expeditious manner. However, there may not be a sufficient and suitable group of potential employees available if rapid growth occurs in a short period of time. If we are unable to hire suitable employees to adequately meet market demand for our solutions, it could affect our ability to bid on this business or to meet existing contractual turnaround times. If our customers experience any significant level of problems with our technology, we may become liable to those customers, we may be unable to persuade our customers to change from a manual, paper-based process and we may lose customers. The success of our product and service solutions depends on the ability to protect against: • medical device malfunctions; • software or hardware malfunctions that interrupt operation of our applications or cause loss of data integrity; • power loss or telecommunications failures; • overloaded systems; • human error; and • natural disasters. Rapidly changing technology may impair our ability to develop and market our solutions and cause us to become less competitive. Our failure to continuously offer competitive product and service solutions could cause us to lose customers and prevent us from successfully marketing our solutions to prospective customers. As a result, our revenues and profitability would likely decline. Because our business relies on technology, we are susceptible to: • rapid technological change; • changing customer needs; • frequent new product introductions; and • evolving industry standards. As the Internet, computer and software industries continue to experience rapid technological change, we must quickly modify our solutions to adapt to such changes. We must develop and introduce new or enhanced product and service solutions that continually meet changing market demands and that keep pace with evolving industry standards. We have experienced development delays in the past and may experience similar or more significant delays in the future. In addition, competitors may develop products superior to our solutions, which could make our products obsolete. If clinical trial sponsors and CROs do not shift from their existing paper-based methods of collecting and managing clinical trial data at investigator sites to an electronic system with centralization, we may not achieve the market penetration necessary to grow the business at expected levels. If participants conducting clinical trials are unwilling to adopt our technology solutions and new ways of conducting business, our revenues may not be sufficient to achieve our expected growth rate. Our efforts to establish a standardized, electronic process to collect, manage and analyze clinical trial and cardiac safety data are a significant departure from the traditional clinical research process. We estimate that the majority of clinical trials today use manual, paper-based data entry, management and analysis tools. Each clinical trial can involve a multitude of participants, including the sponsor, a CRO, regional site managers, investigators and subjects. With so many participants involved in a clinical trial, it may be difficult to convince a sponsor or CRO to accept new methods of conducting a clinical trial. We may not be successful in persuading these participants to change the manner in which they have traditionally operated and to use our product and service solutions. We depend on certain key executives. If we lose the services of any of these executives or are unable to fill open positions existing for these key executives, our operations could be disrupted, we could incur additional 24 Table of Contents expenses and our ability to expand our operations could be impeded, particularly if we are not able to recruit a suitable replacement in a timely manner. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives could negatively affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our future performance will depend significantly on the continued service and performance of all of our executives, particularly Dr. Joel Morganroth, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer. In addition, we remain focused on actively recruiting a Chief Executive Officer for our company. If we are unable to find a suitable Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner, our ability to achieve our business goals could be negatively affected. We also depend on our key technical, customer support, sales and other managerial employees. We believe that it would be costly and time consuming to find suitable replacements for our key employees. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, including both software and devices, or maintain our technological advantages, we may lose our intellectual property rights and become less competitive. If we fail to protect our intellectual property from infringement, other companies may use our intellectual property to offer competitive products at lower prices. If we fail to compete effectively against these companies, we could lose customers and experience a decline in sales of our solutions. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of confidentiality agreements and similar restrictions on disclosure as well as patent protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology. In addition, our patents could be successfully challenged as invalid. Monitoring unauthorized use of our solutions is difficult and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Goodwill is subject to impairment which could result in a significant expense. We have recorded approximately $70.5 million in goodwill as a result of the RS and CCSS acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test at least annually. We perform the impairment test annually as of December 31 or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill might be impaired. Although we made no adjustments as a result of the impairment test as of December 31, 2010, if we determine in connection with future tests that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, we will base the measurement of any impairment on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. An impairment could result in a write-off of goodwill which would reduce our profitability in the period of the write-off. Third parties may claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which could result in the loss of our rights, subject us to liability and divert management attention. Although we are not currently involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be a party to litigation in the future either to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property of others. These claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability or invalidate our ownership rights in the technology used in our solutions. As a result, we may have to stop selling our solutions. Litigation, regardless of the merits of the claim or outcome, could consume a great deal of our time and money and would divert management time and attention away from our core business. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop using the challenged intellectual property or selling our product or product and service solutions that incorporate it; • obtain a license to use the challenged intellectual property or to sell product or service solutions that incorporate it, which could be costly or unavailable; and • redesign those product or service solutions that are based on or incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which could be costly and time consuming or could adversely affect the functionality and market acceptance of our products. 25 Table of Contents If we must take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to sell our solutions, which would substantially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our international operations expose us to additional risks. A key element of our business strategy is to expand our international operations, and the RS acquisition has substantially increased our operations in Europe. We face a number of risks and expenses that are inherent in operating in foreign countries and, accordingly, our international operations may not achieve profitability consistently each year. The risks to us from our international operations include: • government regulations; • trade restrictions; • burdensome foreign taxes; • exchange rate controls and currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; • varying technology standards; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. We are subject to a variety of government regulations in the countries where we market our product and service solutions. We currently operate in the United Kingdom and Germany through foreign subsidiaries and may operate in the future in other countries through additional foreign subsidiaries. If we form foreign subsidiaries outside of the United Kingdom and Germany, we may need to withhold taxes on earnings or other payments they distribute to us. Generally, we can claim a foreign tax credit against our federal income tax expense for these taxes. However, the United States tax laws have a number of limitations on our ability to claim that credit or to use any foreign tax losses, which could result in higher payment by us of taxes in the United States. We may also need to include our share of our foreign subsidiaries’ earnings in our income even if the subsidiaries do not distribute money to us. As a result, less cash would be available to us in the United States. Our global operations may involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce our reported revenues or increase our reported expenses. We currently do not utilize hedging instruments. The agreements that we sign with customers outside the United States may be governed by the laws of the countries where we provide our product and service solutions. We may also need to resolve any disputes under these agreements in the courts or other dispute resolution forums in those countries. This could be expensive or could distract management’s attention away from our core business. Our revenue and earnings are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which has substantially affected our operating results. We conduct a significant portion of our operations in foreign countries. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have and have had a significant effect on our operating results. While a majority of the 2010 revenue of our foreign operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign revenue will increase in 2011 and most of the expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, primarily the pound sterling and the euro, and are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of foreign results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may affect our earnings and earnings per share. Our quarterly effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may 26 Table of Contents have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. Factors that affect the effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: • the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no tax benefit can be recognized; • actual and projected full year pretax income; • transfer pricing; • changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; • audits by taxing authorities; and • the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that future tax benefits will not be realized. Any potential changes in either the U.S., UK or German tax law could cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share, which can affect our stock price. Our existing credit facility contains covenants that limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions. The agreement in connection with our 2010 credit facility requires us to maintain a maximum senior leverage ratio of 2.0 to 1.0 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 to 1.0. The agreement contains other customary affirmative and negative covenants including, but not limited to, limitations upon our ability to: • incur liens or indebtedness; • merge, consolidate or dispose of assets; • make loans or investments; • pay dividends or other distributions; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and • change our business or amend our organizational documents. The agreement contains events of default customary for facilities of this type including, but not limited to: • nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due; • breach of any representations or warranties; • breach of any affirmative or negative covenants, subject to any applicable cure periods; • default in respect of any indebtedness of us or any of our subsidiaries in an amount in excess of $1.0 million; • bankruptcy, insolvency or similar events involving us or any of our subsidiaries; • entry of a judgment against us or any of our subsidiaries of at least $750,000; • a change of control; • certain adverse events under our ERISA plans or those of our subsidiaries; and • the occurrence of any event that has or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect as define in the agreement. These covenants may limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their scheduled due date. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial 27 Table of Contents reports and effectively prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could also be a material adverse effect on our stock price. In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess personal medical information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. If we fail to keep this information properly protected we could be subject to significant liability. Our software solutions are used to collect, manage and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. This information is or could be considered to be personal medical information of the clinical trial participants or patients. Regulation of the use and disclosure of personal medical information is complex and growing. Increased focus on individuals’ rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not that law affords a private right of action. Since we receive and process personal information of clinical trial participants and patients from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of any obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect this personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares in the public markets and subject us to securities class action litigation. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Market prices for securities of software, technology and health care companies have been volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. Accordingly, the trading price for our common stock at any particular time may not be indicative of future trading prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • financial results that are below estimate of such results; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • sales or transfers of large blocks of stock by existing investors; • investors’ general perception of us; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt by us, or other changes in our capital structure; 28 Table of Contents • success of competitive products and technologies; • the failure of any of our software products, services and hosted solutions to achieve or maintain commercial success; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • changes in industry analyst recommendations; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • litigation involving our company or our general industry or both. In addition, if the market for software, technology or health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Sales of large blocks of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Some stockholders may acquire or own large blocks of shares of our outstanding common stock. We cannot predict the effect that public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock, if any. If our stockholders, and particularly our directors and officers, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and issue additional shares in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 