D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our shares. Set forth below are the most significant risks, as identified by our management, but we may also face risks in the future that are not presently foreseen. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by these and other risks. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report, before making any investment decision regarding our company. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the near future. Although we generated net income of $2.7 million in 2009, we have incurred net losses in three of the prior four years, and we may not be able to sustain profitability or meet the level of expectations of the investment community in the near future. This could have a material adverse impact on our share price. Even if we are able to maintain or increase profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses, which, as of December 31, 2009, were $43.6 million. In addition, our revenues may not grow or continue at their current level. For example, our revenues declined by 15.5 %, from $50.3 million in 2008 to $42.5 million in 2009. Our gross margin is currently approximately 53.9 % and, as a result, any decrease in sales and/or increase in our operating expenses may have an adverse effect on our profitability. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues and the loss of any one major customer will decrease our revenues. A large portion of our revenues is derived from substantial orders placed by a relatively small number of customers. Our revenues from our five largest customers represented approximately 38% of our total revenues in 2007, 50% of our total revenue in 2008 and 45% of our total revenue in 2009. Due to our dependence on a small number of customers and large orders, if expected orders are not received, or orders are postponed, reduced or cancelled, our revenues and profitability will be significantly reduced. Severe global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and financial condition are substantially affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy, sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, reduced technology spending by our customers and, consequently, the demand for our products and services. Although we continued to initiate new business and new business opportunities, 2009 was affected by the global economic slowdown that exacerbated into a severe global recession. Our customers, vendors as well as partners and suppliers were, and to some extent still are, affected by this recession in a number of ways, including the following: 8 · The slower pace of decision making processes at customer sites is still apparent; · Some of our customers and vendors have cancelled and may still delay their purchase plans and new projects; · The strong pressure on the price of our products and services is still continuing; and · Some of our customers are still undergoing, and may undergo in the future, financial difficulties which may result in a longer period for collection of payments owed to us and, in certain cases, even seeking to avoid payments to us altogether. Although the global economy showed signs of recovery by the end of 2009, should the economic slowdown resume, it may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending, which could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Consolidation of the communications service providers and/or of our vendor competitors may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. The communications service provider industry is undergoing a period of consolidation and mergers. Examples of this trend are AT&T's mergers with SBC Communications (2005), Bellsouth Corporation (2006) and Dobson Cellular Systems (2007), Vodafone's merger with 3/Hutchison via a joint venture company VHA Pty Ltd, which offers products under the Vodafone brand (2009), and Hellenic Telecommunications Organization (OTE), which since 2009 has had Deutsche Telekom as its largest shareholder. Consolidation and mergers of the providers result in less potential customers. Furthermore, the resulting consolidation and merger of our prospective customers may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, in the past years, we have identified a trend of consolidation and acquisition in our competitors in the global operation support systems, or OSS market. Examples of this trend are the acquisition of SMARTS by EMC (2004), IBM's acquisition of Micromuse (2005) and of Vallent (2006), and, more recently, the acquisition of Arantech by Tektronix (2009) and the purchase of the Network division of Nortel by Ericsson (2009). This trend has resulted in stronger competition by larger companies that threatens our market positioning. We may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets for our products. The markets for our products are very competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Market consolidation in the past several years has led to fewer carrier customers and fewer OSS vendors which strengthened their position, whether as customers or competitors in the market. Our current and prospective competitors offer a variety of solutions to address the markets for network management systems, or NMS, OSS, and business support systems, or BSS. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales, customer support, marketing and other resources and longer operating histories than we have. Many also have greater brand recognition and a larger installed base of their products and technologies. Any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and may develop products comparable or superior to ours. Our current and potential competitors include: • organizations’ information technology, or IT, departments, some of which may be our customers or prospective customers, that provide or may attempt to develop NMS, OSS and BSS applications for their particular internal needs; • providers of NMS, OSS and BSS, such as IBM (which owns Micromuse and Vallent), Hewlett-Packard, Infovista, and Telecordia Technology; • network equipment vendors (NEPs), such as Alcatel Lucent, Huawei, Ericsson and Nokia Siemens, have continued to expand into the OSS market, as it appears they regard service layer evolution as a strategic augmentation of their core network equipment business. Consequently, NEPs may grow in time to be direct competitors of ours; • systems integrators who provide programming, integration, implementation and training services, such as LogicaCMG, Accenture, Cap Gemini and IBM Global Services; and • managed service providers, such as Ericsson, that offer their customers management services on top of their networks rather than building their own network operation center, or NOC, and purchasing an independent management system. 9 Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our revenues and profitability may be reduced. Our future operating results depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and if these products do not continue to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. Revenues from licensing, servicing and supporting our Netrac suite of products account for a substantial majority of our total revenues. Our future operating results will depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and improvements to these products. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If they lose acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. This makes it difficult to rely on future revenues from these products. Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods over which we may not have control. Sales cycles of our products are often lengthy, generally ranging from 6 to 30 months. Our sales process is often subject to delays caused by lengthy approval processes that usually accompany significant expenditures. In addition, the time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and may also be subject to delays. In 2009, in light of the global economic recession, our sales cycles were further lengthened. We cannot control such delays and cannot control the timing of sales cycles or our sales revenue. Delay in the sales cycle of our products could also result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our future growth will depend upon market acceptance of our Long Term Evolution products and the development of a market for such products. Our success depends on the acceptance of our new products and technologies and the development of the targeted markets. During 2009 we invested, and plan to continue to invest in 2010, in developing our Long Term Evolution, or LTE solution and in creating and increasing its market acceptance. There is no assurance that the market or demand for LTE solutions, such as our Netrac LTE solution, will develop as rapidly as we expect or at all, or even if such market develops, that we will be successful in marketing and selling our Netrac LTE solution and growing revenues to justify our investments. In particular, although LTE is expected to become the platform of choice for most mobile communications service providers (CSPs), it may very well be that, at least initially, LTE will be too expensive for mature 2G/3G CSPs and/or that CSPs will deci de not to buy a full LTE solution but rather employ other means to implement performance and capacity improvements. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and emerging industry standards. The market for our products is characterized by: • emergence of new types of networks and services; • changing services and technologies; • evolving industry standards; • changing regulatory environments; and • changes in communications service providers’ requirements. In addition, the introduction of new technologies and new industry standards and practices can render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate and we could lose market acceptance and have reduced related revenues. Accordingly, our financial performance and growth is dependent on our ability to, among other things: • enhance and improve our existing products; • develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, including LTE, the 4th generation network; 10 • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; • incorporate new technologies and new infrastructures; and • develop new interfaces between our products and complimentary products. We may not be successful at these tasks. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products and features. In addition, our new products and features may not meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve market acceptance. Although we continue to invest in improving our products and solutions, we cannot assure you that they will receive market acceptance. Thus, our future operating results depend on the market acceptance of our existing and new products and services, and if these investments do not achieve market acceptance, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. We depend on strategic relationships and our revenues may be reduced if such relationships are not successful. In addition, our future growth will depend in part on our ability to form new strategic relationships or exploit indirect sales channels that will market our products effectively. Our sales strategy includes direct sales to customers as well as sales through original equipment manufacturers, system integrators and other indirect channels for sales and support of our products. Specifically, we rely on strategic relationships with system integrators and hardware vendors to sell our products and services and these relationships may account for a larger portion of our revenues in the future. These parties are not obligated to sell any of our products. Any failure of these relationships to market our products effectively or generate significant revenues for us, a termination of any of these relationships, or if we are unable to form additional strategic alliances in the future that will prove beneficial to us, could harm our operations and profitability. We rely on revenue from our international operations, and if we cannot overcome inherent risks, these operations will not succeed. Our current customers are located in numerous countries, and we are seeking to expand into other markets. We expect our revenues from international sales to continue to account for a large portion of our total revenues in the future. However, we may not be able to sustain or increase revenues derived from our international operations. In addition, as we conduct business globally, our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations generally, and time and costs spent on staffing and managing operations in markets from which we do not derive substantial revenue but still need to maintain a presence; • the impact of possible recessionary environments in certain economies; • various local laws and legal standards and/or changes in regulatory requirements, including a slowdown in the rate of privatization of communications service providers; • difficulties in enforcing our rights in various jurisdictions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the conversion of currencies or the repatriation of earnings; • exchange rates fluctuations; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • economic and political instability. 11 We may not be able to effectively manage these risks and these risks may lead to disputes with our customers and suppliers. This may have an adverse effect on our operational margins. Government regulatory policies in the communications industry may harm our business. Government regulatory policies have had a major impact on our ability to attract and retain customers. For example, regulatory authorities have overseen the pricing of new and existing communications services, which, in turn, has impacted our customers’ abilities to make significant capital expenditures. The enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations could inhibit or prevent our customers from purchasing our products. We occasionally perform a large amount of our obligations to customers before we receive payment, and in some instances we commence our performance before we have concluded a written agreement with a customer, which forces us to finance our performance and risk nonpayment. We occasionally perform a portion of our obligations to customers before receiving payment. In some instances, we incur certain expenses prior to concluding a written agreement with a customer. Because of this, we must finance the costs of performing under our customer agreements, and risk nonpayment. Although our customers are generally large companies, they may not pay our fees when due or dispute them. Payment of our fees is generally not secured or guaranteed. Delayed payment or failure to receive payment may strain our finances. Some of our customers may terminate their agreements with us after we have partially performed under such agreements, and in such event, we may have difficulty recovering our costs and may lose future revenues. In order to continue to sell our products in a competitive industry, we have often been required to agree to provisions in our contracts with customers that generally make it easier for customers to terminate their agreements with us at various stages of performance, with payments covering only the products and services actually provided by us, including a margin in accordance to the progress of these customer's projects, up to the date of termination. Our performance often largely comprises services and customized products which we cannot recover and resell. As a result, if any of our customers will terminate their agreements with us, we may have difficulty recovering our costs relating to such services and customized products. In such event, we may have to reduce future revenues. Currency fluctuations could have an impact on our revenues and profitability. A portion of our revenues and expenses are in currencies other than U.S. dollars, such as the NIS and the Euro. Since our financial results are measured in dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar could have an impact on our revenues and profitability. Our results could also be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS, Euro or other currencies. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from future currency fluctuations. If we are unable to retain and attract management and technical personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. The success of our business depends in large part on the continuing contributions of our senior management and key personnel. If we are unable to retain our senior management or other key personnel, this could cause a reduction in our efficiency and profitability, may harm perceptions of us in the investment community and may cause our stock price to decline. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain new highly qualified management and technical personnel. Highly qualified technical personnel are in demand in Israel, and competition for such personnel is generally intense. If we are not able to attract and retain such personnel when and as needed, our business could be harmed. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and we may lose our rights to it. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our proprietary software technology. We currently have only one registered patent and, in order to protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures. Consequently, we are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: 12 • the measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent others from misappropriating our technology or from independently developing or selling technology or products with features based on or similar to ours; • our customers that are given access to our intellectual property rights under rare circumstances, may infringe these rights; • our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, violated or circumvented and may not provide us with any competitive advantage; • any future litigation to protect our proprietary rights could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail; and • a determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. If we lose any of our rights to our proprietary technology, we may not be able to continue our business. We currently rely on software that we license from third parties, and we may in the future rely on software that we intend to license from third parties. If we fail to maintain these licenses, we may experience delays or reductions in our product shipments and have difficulty continuing our business. We rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. In the future, we may rely on additional software that we intend to license from third parties. Some of these third party software licensors are small or early-stage companies that are not as stable as larger and more established software licensors. Our third-party licensors that are larger and more established software licensors may impose on us stringent conditions to maintain our licenses and may unilaterally change the price and other terms of our licenses. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all or, if available, may infringe upon the proprietary rights of other parties. Our loss of or inability to maintain our existing software licenses or obtain future licenses could result in delays or reductions in our product shipments. These delays or reductions in shipments could cause a reduction in our revenues or profitability and could harm our business. Our technology may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and we may lose our rights to it. We rely on our proprietary software technology, including software that we license from third parties, to compete in our markets. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: • we expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps; • we may inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of other parties and other parties may assert infringement claims against us; • if we violate the intellectual property rights of other parties we may be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use; • any future litigation to defend us against allegations that we have infringed the rights of others could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail or are entitled to indemnification from third parties in connection therewith; and • determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology or other intellectual property, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 13 Defects in our software products could reduce our revenues and harm our reputation. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex software products involve substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in products after they are licensed to customers. This could result in: • a delay in recognition or loss of revenues; • loss of market share; and • failure to achieve market acceptance. The complexities of the implementation of our products involve additional risks of performance failure and substantial delays. Because our customer base consists of a relatively limited number of users, the harm to our reputation that could result from product defects or implementation errors could be especially damaging. This could seriously harm our business. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are u nable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our products contain software elements that utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures, including the General Public License. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products in the event they are inappropriately integrated. We believe that we have properly integrated software that is subject to such licenses into our products. It is possible, however, that third parties will claim that we have failed to do so, in which case we may be required to disclose the source code of our own proprietary software to the public, which could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could, therefore, ma terially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to pay additional taxes due to tax positions that we undertook. We, as a global company, are exposed to various tax jurisdictions. We may be exposed to tax payments and related expenses due to tax positions that we have taken regarding filing of various tax returns or in cases where we determined not to file tax returns. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel could harm our results of operations. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel, and our principal offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence and hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and its subsequent seizure of control of the Gaza strip have created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. For example, since June 2007, thousands of missiles have been fired from Gaza at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas in January 2009. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, may hinder Israel’s international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where we can sell our products. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the recent increase in hostilities. 14 We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date; however, we can give no assurance that it will have no such effect in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic conditions in Israel could adversely affect our operations. The rate of inflation in Israel may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Similarly, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar. A substantial amount of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars or is U.S. dollar-linked, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally the rent for our facilities in Israel and salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Similarly, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, the inflation adjusted NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the U.S. dollar or vice versa. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, will increase labor and other costs, which will increase the dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations. Further, because a substantial amount of our revenues is paid in Euro, we are also exposed to currency fluctuation risk and when the U.S dollar devaluates against the Euro, our revenues will increase and vice versa. In prior years, we have rarely engaged in any material foreign exchange contracts transactions to decrease our financial exposure to currency fluctuations. However, during the fourth quarter of 2009 we entered into foreign exchange contracts transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Euro against the U.S dollar and, as of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts transactions to purchase U.S dollars in the total amount of $3 million. Income resulting from the foreign exchange activity was approximately $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Even if we perform these transactions, they may not adequately protect us from the effects of currency fluctuations and/or inflation in Israel. The tax benefits we are currently entitled to receive require us to meet several conditions, which we may fail to satisfy. Our investment programs were granted the status of an approved enterprise under Israel’s Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended, or the Investments Law. An approved enterprise is eligible for tax benefits on taxable income derived from its approved enterprise programs. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. If we have to pay additional taxes, this could harm our business and our profit ability when achieved. The tax benefits we expect to receive will be applicable only when we have taxable income. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We were obligated to pay royalties with respect to revenues derived from products developed with the grants received. Since December 31, 2006, we did not pay or accrue any royalties to the Chief Scientist. However, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law g overning the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. 15 Our results of operations could be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and some were called to duty during armed conflicts, such as the armed conflict between Israel and Hamas in January 2009. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees because of military service. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Any disruption in our oper ations as the result of military service by key personnel could harm our business. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Goldfarb, Levy, Eran, Meiri, Tzafrir & Co., that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or other business combination. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See “Item 10B - Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” 16 We may be required to pay additional taxes relating to certain relocation expenses. We have assessed that a tax exposure contingency may exist with regard to relocation expenses of certain of our subsidiaries' employees and former employees. We cannot reasonably estimate the related amount of loss, if any, for the tax contingency. Accordingly, and based on our legal counsel's opinion, we have not recorded an accrual for the said tax contingency. If we are required to pay additional taxes on account of this contingency, our future results may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has decreased significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly since late 2002. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction of new telecommunications services and new industry standards; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • general market conditions, and changes in market conditions in our industry; • the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector); and • political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel, the United States and worldwide. We may not satisfy the NASDAQ requirements for continued listing. If we cannot satisfy these requirements, NASDAQ could delist our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, under the symbol TTIL. To continue to be listed on the NASDAQ, we will need to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. For example, between November 2008 and August 2009, the bid price of our ordinary shares closed below the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the minimum bid, or meet the other continued listing requirements of NASDAQ in the future. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ , trading in our ordinary shares may be conducted, if available, on the "OTC Bulletin Board Service" or, if available, another medium. In the event of such delisting, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain acc urate quotations as to the value of our ordinary shares, and our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares could be severely limited. In addition, if our ordinary shares were delisted from NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be considered a "penny stock" under the U.S. federal securities laws. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our ordinary shares. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, having potentially punitive interest charges apply to those gains, and the denial of the taxation of certain dividends paid by us at the lower rates applicable to long-term capital gains. Although we do not believe that we have been a PFIC for any tax year through and including 2009, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the ma rket value of our shares or valuing our assets, and it is difficult to make accurate determinations about these items. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances to you about our status. U.S. shareholders are urged to consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. 17 Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of March 10, 2010, we had approximately 16.1 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 5.4 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants or which are issuable upon conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of the outstanding warrants and options or Series A Preferred Shares will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares, or upon the exercise of warrants or employee options, or if the perception exists that our shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and upon terms and conditions we deem appropriate. One person beneficially owns a substantial amount of our shares and may influence our affairs. As of March 1, 2010, Shlomo Eisenberg, the former chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned 4,689,924 ordinary shares, which represents approximately 24.8% of our voting power. As a result, he may have an influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing m arket price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. In certain events, the rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares will be superior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. In January 2005, we issued 6,636,391 Series A Preferred Shares to the investors in the private placement transaction. As of March 10, 2010, 2,809,116 Series A Preferred Shares remain outstanding. The preferential rights of the Series A Preferred Shares currently include, among others: • weighted-average anti-dilution protection in the event that we issue or are deemed to have issued (subject to certain exceptions) ordinary shares at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price in effect at the time of such issuance or deemed issuance, which could result in dilution of the holdings of ordinary shareholders; and • a preference in the event we are liquidated, which could result in the holders of our ordinary shares recovering a lesser amount in the event of our liquidation than they would have received had we not issued the Series A Preferred Shares. For more information about the Series A Preferred Shares, see “Item 10B - Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association — Series A Preferred Shares.” 