RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks, including the risks described below and in “BUSINESS,” “MD&A,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and/or prospects. 45 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Conservatorship and Related Matters The future status and role of Freddie Mac is uncertain and could be materially adversely affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company. The Acting Director of FHFA stated on November 15, 2011 that “the long-term outlook is that neither [Freddie Mac nor Fannie Mae] will continue to exist, at least in its current form, in the future.” Future legislation will likely materially affect the role of the company, our business model, our structure, and future results of operations. Some or all of our functions could be transferred to other institutions, and we could cease to exist as a stockholder-owned company or at all. If any of these events were to occur, our shares could further diminish in value, or cease to have any value, and there can be no assurance that our stockholders would receive any compensation for such loss in value. On February 11, 2011, the Administration delivered a report to Congress that lays out the Administration’s plan to reform the U.S. housing finance market, including options for structuring the government’s long-term role in a housing finance system in which the private sector is the dominant provider of mortgage credit. The report recommends winding down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, stating that the Administration will work with FHFA to determine the best way to responsibly reduce the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in the market and ultimately wind down both institutions. The report identifies a number of policy levers that could be used to wind down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, shrink the government’s footprint in housing finance, and help bring private capital back to the mortgage market, including increasing guarantee fees, phasing in a 10% down payment requirement, reducing conforming loan limits, and winding down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s investment portfolios, consistent with the senior preferred stock purchase agreements. A number of bills were introduced in the Senate and House in 2011 concerning the future state of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Several of these bills take a comprehensive approach that would wind down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (or completely restructure the companies), while other bills would revise the companies’ operations in a limited manner. Congress also held hearings related to the long-term future of housing finance, including the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. We expect additional legislation relating to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to be introduced and considered by Congress; however, we cannot predict whether or when any such legislation will be enacted. On February 2, 2012, the Administration announced that it expects to provide more detail concerning approaches to reform the U.S. housing finance market in the spring, and that it plans to begin exploring options for legislation more intensively with Congress. On February 21, 2012, FHFA sent to Congress a strategic plan for the next phase of the conservatorships of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. For more information on the Administration’s February 2011 report, GSE reform legislation, and FHFA’s strategic plan, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments.” In addition to legislative actions, FHFA has expansive regulatory authority over us, and the manner in which FHFA will use its authority in the future is unclear. FHFA could take a number of regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our company, such as changing or reinstating our current capital requirements, which are not binding during conservatorship, or imposing additional restrictions on our portfolio activities or new initiatives. The conservatorship is indefinite in duration and the timing, conditions, and likelihood of our emerging from conservatorship are uncertain. Even if the conservatorship is terminated, we would remain subject to the Purchase Agreement, senior preferred stock, and warrant. FHFA has stated that there is no exact time frame as to when the conservatorship may end. Termination of the conservatorship (other than in connection with receivership) also requires Treasury’s consent under the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance as to when, and under what circumstances, Treasury would give such consent. There is also significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. It is possible that the conservatorship will end with us being placed into receivership. The Acting Director of FHFA stated on September 19, 2011 that “it ought to be clear to everyone as this point, given [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] losses since being placed into conservatorship and the terms of the Treasury’s financial support agreements, that [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] will not be able to earn their way back to a condition that allows them to emerge from conservatorship.” In addition, Treasury has the ability to acquire almost 80% of our common stock for nominal consideration by exercising the warrant we issued to it pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Consequently, the company could effectively remain under the control of the U.S. government even if the conservatorship was ended and the voting rights of common stockholders restored. The warrant held by Treasury, the restrictions on our business contained in the Purchase Agreement, and the senior status of the senior preferred stock issued to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement, if the senior 46 Freddie Mac Table of Contents preferred stock has not been redeemed, also could adversely affect our ability to attract new private sector capital in the future should the company be in a position to seek such capital. Moreover, our draws under Treasury’s funding commitment, the senior preferred stock dividend obligation, and commitment fees paid to Treasury (commitment fees have been waived through the first quarter of 2012) could permanently impair our ability to build independent sources of capital. We expect to make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in future periods, which will adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We expect to request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in future periods. Over time, our dividend obligation to Treasury on the senior preferred stock will increasingly drive future draws. Although we may experience period-to-period variability in earnings and comprehensive income, it is unlikely that we will generate net income or comprehensive income in excess of our annual dividends payable to Treasury over the long term. Dividends to Treasury on the senior preferred stock are cumulative and accrue at an annual rate of 10% (or 12% in any quarter in which dividends are not paid in cash) until all accrued dividends are paid in cash. The size and timing of our future draws will be determined by our dividend obligation on the senior preferred stock and a variety of other factors that could adversely affect our net worth. These other factors include the following: • how long and to what extent the U.S. economy and housing market, including home prices, remain weak, which could increase credit expenses and cause additional other-than-temporary impairments of the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold; • foreclosure prevention efforts and foreclosure processing delays, which could increase our expenses; • competitiveness with other mortgage market participants, including Fannie Mae; • adverse changes in interest rates, the yield curve, implied volatility or mortgage-to-debt OAS, which could increase realized and unrealized mark-to-fair value losses recorded in earnings or AOCI; • required reductions in the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio and other limitations on our investment activities that reduce the earnings capacity of our investment activities; • quarterly commitment fees payable to Treasury, the amount of which has not yet been established and could be substantial (Treasury has waived the fee for all quarters of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012). Treasury has indicated that it remains committed to protecting taxpayers and ensuring that our future positive earnings are returned to taxpayers as compensation for their investment; • adverse changes in our funding costs or limitations in our access to public debt markets; • establishment of additional valuation allowances for our remaining net deferred tax asset; • changes in accounting practices or guidance; • effects of the MHA Program and other government initiatives, including any future requirements to reduce the principal amount of loans; • losses resulting from control failures, including any control failures because of our inability to retain staff; • limitations on our ability to develop new products, enter into new lines of business, or increase guarantee and related fees; • introduction of additional public mission-related initiatives that may adversely impact our financial results; or • changes in business practices resulting from legislative and regulatory developments or direction from our Conservator. Under the Purchase Agreement, the $200 billion cap on Treasury’s funding commitment will increase as necessary to accommodate any cumulative reduction in our net worth during 2010, 2011, and 2012. Although additional draws under the Purchase Agreement will allow us to remain solvent and avoid mandatory receivership, they will also increase the liquidation preference of, and the dividends we owe on, the senior preferred stock. Based on the aggregate liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock of $72.3 billion (which amount includes the funds requested to address our net worth deficit as of December 31, 2011), Treasury is entitled to annual cash dividends of $7.23 billion, which exceeds our annual historical earnings in all but one period. Increases in the already substantial liquidation preference and senior preferred stock dividend obligation, along with limited flexibility to redeem the senior preferred stock, will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and add to the significant uncertainty regarding our long-term financial sustainability. This may also cause further negative publicity about our company. 47 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our business objectives and strategies have in some cases been significantly altered since we were placed into conservatorship, and may continue to change, in ways that negatively affect our future financial condition and results of operations. FHFA, as Conservator, has directed the company to focus on managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. At the direction of the Conservator, we have made changes to certain business practices that are designed to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives but may not contribute to our goal of managing to a positive stockholders’ equity. Some of these changes have increased our expenses or caused us to forego revenue opportunities. For example, FHFA has directed that we implement various initiatives under the MHA Program. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the implementation of these initiatives and we cannot currently estimate whether, or the extent to which, costs incurred in the near term from these initiatives may be offset, if at all, by the prevention or reduction of potential future costs of serious delinquencies and foreclosures due to these initiatives. On October 24, 2011, FHFA, Freddie Mac, and Fannie Mae announced a series of FHFA-directed changes to HARP in an effort to attract more eligible borrowers whose monthly payments are current and who can benefit from refinancing their home mortgages. There can be no assurance that the revisions to HARP will be successful in achieving these objectives or that any benefits from the revised program will exceed our costs. The Conservator and Treasury have also not authorized us to engage in certain business activities and transactions, including the purchase or sale of certain assets, which we believe might have had a beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition, if executed. Our inability to execute such initiatives and transactions may adversely affect our profitability. Other agencies of the U.S. government, as well as Congress, also have an interest in the conduct of our business. We do not know what actions they may request us to take. In view of the conservatorship and the reasons stated by FHFA for its establishment, it is likely that our business model and strategic objectives will continue to change, possibly significantly, including in pursuit of our public mission and other non-financial objectives. Among other things, we could experience significant changes in the size, growth, and characteristics of our guarantee activities, and we could further change our operational objectives, including our pricing strategy in our core mortgage guarantee business. The conservatorship has significantly impacted our investment activity, and we may face further restrictions on this activity. Accordingly, our strategic and operational focus may not always be consistent with the generation of net income. It is possible that we will make material changes to our capital strategy and to our accounting policies, methods, and estimates. In addition, we may be directed to engage in initiatives that are operationally difficult or costly to implement, or that adversely affect our financial results. For example, FHFA has directed us to take various actions in support of the objectives of a gradual transition to greater private capital participation in housing finance and greater distribution of risk to participants other than the government, such as developing security structures that allow for private sector risk sharing. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011. Among its provisions, this new law directs FHFA to require Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to increase guarantee fees by no less than 10 basis points above the average guarantee fees charged in 2011 on single-family mortgage-backed securities. Under the law, the proceeds from this increase will be remitted to Treasury to fund the payroll tax cut, rather than retained by the companies. It is currently unclear what effect this increase or any further guarantee fee increases or other fee adjustments associated with this law will have on the future profitability and operations of our single-family guarantee business, or on our ability to raise guarantee fees that may be retained by us. While we continue to assess the impact of this law on us, we currently believe that implementation of this law will present operational and accounting challenges for us. FHFA has stated that it has focused Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae on their existing core business, including minimizing credit losses, and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship, and is not permitting Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to offer new products or enter into new lines of business. FHFA stated that the focus of the conservatorship is on conserving assets, minimizing corporate losses, ensuring Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae continue to serve their mission, overseeing remediation of identified weaknesses in corporate operations and risk management, and ensuring that sound corporate governance principles are followed. These and other restrictions imposed by FHFA could adversely affect our financial results in future periods. As our Conservator, FHFA possesses all of the powers of our stockholders, officers, and directors. During the conservatorship, the Conservator has delegated certain authority to the Board of Directors to oversee, and to management to conduct, day-to-day operations so that the company can continue to operate in the ordinary course of business. FHFA has the ability to withdraw or revise its delegations of authority and override actions of our Board of Directors at any time. The directors serve on behalf of, and exercise authority as directed by, the Conservator. In addition, FHFA has the 48 Freddie Mac Table of Contents power to take actions without our knowledge that could be material to investors and could significantly affect our financial performance. These changes and other factors could have material adverse effects on, among other things, our portfolio growth, net worth, credit losses, net interest income, guarantee fee income, net deferred tax assets, and loan loss reserves, and could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In light of the significant uncertainty surrounding these changes, there can be no assurances regarding when, or if, we will return to profitability. We have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives that may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to maintain positive net worth. Based on our charter, other legislation, public statements from Treasury and FHFA officials and guidance and directives from our Conservator, we have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives. These objectives include: (a) minimizing our credit losses; (b) conserving assets; (c) providing liquidity, stability, and affordability in the mortgage market; (d) continuing to provide additional assistance to the struggling housing and mortgage markets; (e) managing to a positive stockholders’ equity and reducing the need to draw funds from Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement; and (f) protecting the interests of the taxpayers. These objectives create conflicts in strategic and day-to-day decision making that will likely lead to suboptimal outcomes for one or more, or possibly all, of these objectives. This could lead to negative publicity and damage our reputation. We may face increased operational risk from these competing objectives. Current portfolio investment and mortgage guarantee activities, liquidity support, loan modification and refinancing initiatives, and foreclosure forbearance initiatives, including our efforts under the MHA Program, are intended to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives under conservatorship, but may negatively impact our financial results and net worth. FHFA directives that we and Fannie Mae adopt uniform approaches in some areas could have an adverse impact on our business or on our competitive position with respect to Fannie Mae. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor. On multiple occasions, FHFA has directed us and Fannie Mae to confer and suggest to FHFA possible uniform approaches to particular business and accounting issues and problems. It is likely that we will receive additional directives in the future. In most such cases, FHFA subsequently directed us and Fannie Mae to adopt a specific uniform approach. For example: • In March 2009, FHFA directed Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to adopt the HAMP program for modification of mortgages that they hold or guarantee, leading to a largely uniform approach to modifications for HAMP-eligible borrowers; • In February 2010, FHFA directed Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to work together to standardize definitions for mortgage delivery data; • In January 2011, FHFA announced that it had directed Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to work on a joint initiative, in coordination with HUD, to consider alternatives for future mortgage servicing structures and servicing compensation; • In April 2011, FHFA announced a new set of aligned standards for servicing of non-performing loans owned or guaranteed by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, including a standard modification initiative for borrowers not eligible for HAMP modifications; • In October 2011, through the revisions to the HARP initiative, FHFA directed us and Fannie Mae to align certain aspects of our and Fannie Mae’s respective refinance initiatives; and • In December 2011, FHFA announced that the guarantee fee on all single-family residential mortgages sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae will increase by 10 basis points to fund the payroll tax cut, effective April 1, 2012. This increase is in connection with the implementation of the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011. We cannot predict the impact on our business of these actions or any similar actions FHFA may require us and Fannie Mae to take in the future. It is possible that in some areas FHFA could require us and Fannie Mae to take a uniform approach that, because of differences in our respective businesses, could place Freddie Mac at a competitive disadvantage to Fannie Mae. We may be required to adopt approaches that are operationally difficult for us to implement. It also is possible that in some cases identifying, adopting and maintaining a uniform approach could entail higher costs than would a unilateral approach, and that when market conditions merit a change in a uniform approach, coordinating the change might entail additional cost and delay. If and when conservatorship ends, market acceptance of a uniform approach could make it difficult to depart from that approach even if doing so would be economically desirable. 49 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are subject to significant limitations on our business under the Purchase Agreement that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Purchase Agreement includes significant restrictions on our ability to manage our business, including limitations on the amount of indebtedness we may incur, the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio, and the circumstances in which we may pay dividends, transfer certain assets, raise capital, and pay down the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock. In addition, the Purchase Agreement provides that we may not enter into any new compensation arrangements or increase amounts or benefits payable under existing compensation arrangements of any executive officers without the consent of the Director of FHFA, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury. In deciding whether or not to consent to any request for approval it receives from us under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury has the right to withhold its consent for any reason and is not required by the agreement to consider any particular factors, including whether or not management believes that the transaction would benefit the company. The limitations under the Purchase Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our regulator may, and in some cases must, place us into receivership, which would result in the liquidation of our assets and terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter; if we are liquidated, there may not be sufficient funds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock, or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. We could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for a number of reasons, including conditions that FHFA has already asserted existed at the time the then Director of FHFA placed us into conservatorship. These include: a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to unsafe or unsound practices; the existence of an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business; an inability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business; a weakening of our condition due to unsafe or unsound practices or conditions; critical undercapitalization; the likelihood of losses that will deplete substantially all of our capital; or by consent. In addition, FHFA could be required to place us in receivership if Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth. For more information, see “— If Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, FHFA could be required to place us into receivership.” A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. The appointment of FHFA (or any other entity) as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising as a result of their status as stockholders or creditors, other than the potential ability to be paid upon our liquidation. Unlike conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, there can be no assurance that there would be sufficient proceeds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. To the extent that we are placed into receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guarantee to the holders of our mortgage-related securities, such holders could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guarantee. Only after paying the secured and unsecured claims of the company, the administrative expenses of the receiver and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, which ranks senior to our common stock and all other series of preferred stock upon liquidation, would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. The aggregate liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock owned by Treasury will increase to $72.3 billion upon funding of the draw request to address our net worth deficit as of December 31, 2011. The liquidation preference will increase further if, as we expect, we make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. It will also increase if we do not pay dividends owed on the senior preferred stock in cash or if we do not pay the quarterly commitment fee to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement. If we are placed into receivership or no longer operate as a going concern, we would no longer be able to assert that we will realize assets and satisfy liabilities in the normal course of business, and, therefore, our basis of accounting would change to liquidation-based accounting. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their estimated net realizable value and liabilities are stated at their estimated settlement amounts, which could adversely affect our net worth. In addition, the amounts in AOCI would be reclassified to earnings, which could also adversely affect our net worth. 50 Freddie Mac Table of Contents If Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, FHFA could be required to place us into receivership. Under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury made a commitment to provide funding, under certain conditions, to eliminate deficits in our net worth. Under the GSE Act, FHFA must place us into receivership if FHFA determines in writing that our assets are less than our obligations for a period of 60 calendar days. FHFA has notified us that the measurement period for any mandatory receivership determination with respect to our assets and obligations would commence no earlier than the SEC public filing deadline for our quarterly or annual financial statements and would continue for 60 calendar days after that date. FHFA has also advised us that, if, during that 60-day period, we receive funds from Treasury in an amount at least equal to the deficiency amount under the Purchase Agreement, the Director of FHFA will not make a mandatory receivership determination. If funding has been requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, and Treasury is unable to provide us with such funding within the 60-day period specified by FHFA, FHFA would be required to place us into receivership if our assets remain less than our obligations during that 60-day period. The conservatorship and uncertainty concerning our future has had, and will likely continue to have, an adverse effect on the retention, recruitment, and engagement of management and other employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our ability to recruit, retain, and engage management and other employees with the necessary skills to conduct our business has been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the conservatorship, the uncertainty regarding its duration, the potential for future legislative or regulatory actions that could significantly affect our existence and our role in the secondary mortgage market, and the negative publicity concerning the GSEs. Accordingly, we may not be able to retain or replace executives or other employees with the requisite institutional knowledge and the technical, operational, risk management, and other key skills needed to conduct our business effectively. We may also face increased operational risk if key employees leave the company. The actions taken by Congress, Treasury, and the Conservator to date, or that may be taken by them or other government agencies in the future, may have an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of senior executives, management, and other valuable employees. For example, we are subject to restrictions on the amount and type of compensation we may pay our executives under conservatorship. Also contributing to our concerns regarding executive retention risk is the aggregate level of compensation paid to our Section 16 executive officers, which for 2011 performance was significantly below the 25th percentile of market-based compensation. See “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” for more information. We cannot offer equity-based compensation, which is both common in our industry and provides a key incentive for employees to stay with the company. The Conservator directed us to maintain individual salaries and wage rates for all employees at 2010 levels for 2011 and 2012 (except in the case of promotions or significant changes in responsibilities). Given our current status, we cannot offer the prospects of even medium-term employment, much less long-term. Continued public condemnation of the company and its employees creates yet another obstacle to hiring and retaining the talent we need. We are finding it difficult to retain and engage critical employees and attract people with the skills and experience we need. Voluntary attrition rates for high performing employees, those with specialized skill sets, and those responsible for controls over financial reporting have risen markedly since we were placed into conservatorship. This has led to concerns about staffing inadequacies, management depth, and employee engagement. Attracting qualified senior executives is particularly difficult. We operate in an environment in which virtually every business decision is closely scrutinized and subject to public criticism and review by various government authorities. Many executives are unwilling to work in such an environment for potentially significantly less than what they could earn elsewhere. A recovering economy is likely to put additional pressures on turnover in 2012, as other attractive opportunities may become available to people who we want to retain. The high and increasing level of scrutiny from FHFA and its Office of Inspector General and other regulators has also heightened stress levels throughout the organization and placed additional burdens on staff. In 2011, the Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives approved a bill that would generally put our employees on the federal government’s pay scale, and in 2012 the House and Senate each approved legislation containing a provision that would prohibit senior executives from receiving bonuses during conservatorship. If this or similar legislation were to become law, many of our employees would experience a sudden and sharp decrease in compensation. The Acting Director of FHFA stated on November 15, 2011 that this “would certainly risk a substantial exodus of talent, the best leaving first in many instances. [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] likely would suffer a rapidly growing vacancy list and replacements with lesser skills and no experience in their specific jobs. A significant increase in safety and soundness risks and in costly operational failures would, in my opinion, be highly likely.” The Acting Director 51 Freddie Mac Table of Contents noted that ‘‘[s]hould the risks I fear materialize, FHFA might well be forced to limit [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] business activities. Some of the business [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] would be unable to undertake might simply not occur, with potential disruption in housing markets and the economy.” For more information on legislative developments affecting compensation, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Legislation Related to Reforming Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.” The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred stockholders. Prior to our entry into conservatorship, the market price for our common stock declined substantially. After our entry into conservatorship, the market price of our common stock continued to decline, and has been $1 or less per share since June 2010. As a result, the investments of our common and preferred stockholders lost substantial value, which they may never recover. There is significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. Therefore, it is likely that our shares could further diminish in value, or cease to have any value. The Acting Director of FHFA has stated that ‘‘[Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] equity holders retain an economic claim on the companies but that claim is subordinate to taxpayer claims. As a practical matter, taxpayers are not likely to be repaid in full, so [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] stock lower in priority is not likely to have any value.” The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, other material adverse effects on our common and preferred stockholders, including the following: • No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our stockholders are suspended during the conservatorship and our common stockholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters. • No longer managed to maximize stockholder returns. Because we are in conservatorship, we are no longer managed with a strategy to maximize stockholder returns. FHFA has stated that it has focused Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae on their existing core business, including minimizing credit losses, and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship. FHFA stated that it is not permitting Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to offer new products or enter into new lines of business. FHFA stated that the focus of the conservatorship is on conserving assets, minimizing corporate losses, ensuring Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae continue to serve their mission, overseeing remediation of identified weaknesses in corporate operations and risk management, and ensuring that sound corporate governance principles are followed. • Priority of Senior Preferred Stock. The senior preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock and all other series of preferred stock as to both dividends and distributions upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the company. • Dividends have been eliminated. The Conservator has eliminated dividends on Freddie Mac common and preferred stock (other than dividends on the senior preferred stock) during the conservatorship. In addition, under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred stockholders (other than on the senior preferred stock) without the consent of Treasury, regardless of whether or not we are in conservatorship. • Warrant may substantially dilute investment of current stockholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common stockholders will be substantially diluted. It is possible that stockholders, other than Treasury, will not own more than 20.1% of our total common stock for the duration of our existence. Under our charter, bylaws and applicable law, 20.1% is insufficient to control the outcome of any vote that is presented to the common stockholders. Accordingly, existing common stockholders have no assurance that, as a group, they will be able to control the election of our directors or the outcome of any other vote after the time, if any, that the conservatorship ends. Competitive and Market Risks Our investment activity is significantly limited under the Purchase Agreement and by FHFA, which will likely reduce our earnings from investment activities over time and result in greater reliance on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. We are subject to significant limitations on our investment activity, which will adversely affect the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio over time. These limitations include: (a) a requirement to reduce the size of 52 Freddie Mac Table of Contents our mortgage-related investments portfolio; and (b) significant constraints on our ability to purchase or sell mortgage assets. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, our mortgage-related investments portfolio is subject to a cap that decreases by 10% each year until the portfolio reaches $250 billion. As a result, the UPB of our mortgage-related investments portfolio could not exceed $729 billion as of December 31, 2011 and may not exceed $656.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. Our mortgage-related investments portfolio has contracted considerably since we entered into conservatorship, and we are working with FHFA to identify ways to prudently accelerate the rate of contraction of the portfolio. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities to purchase or sell mortgage assets at attractive prices has been, and likely will continue to be, limited. In addition, we can provide no assurance that the cap on our mortgage-related investments portfolio will not, over time, force us to sell mortgage assets at unattractive prices, particularly given the potential in coming periods for continued high volumes of loan modifications and removal of seriously delinquent loans, both of which result in the removal of mortgage loans from our PCs for our mortgage-related investments portfolio. We expect that our holdings of unsecuritized single-family loans will continue to increase in 2012 due to the recent revisions to HARP, which will result in our purchase of mortgage loans with LTV ratios greater than 125%, as we have not yet implemented a securitization process for such loans. For more information on the various restrictions and limitations on our investment activity and our mortgage-related investments portfolio, see “BUSINESS — Conservatorship and Related Matters — Impact of Conservatorship and Related Actions on Our Business — Limits on Investment Activity and Our Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio.” These limitations will reduce the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio business and require us to place greater emphasis on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. However, under conservatorship, our ability to generate revenue through guarantee activities may be limited, as we may be required to adopt business practices that provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives, but that may negatively impact our future financial results from guarantee activities. The combination of the restrictions on our business activities under the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, combined with our potential inability to generate sufficient revenue through our guarantee activities to offset the effects of those restrictions, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the current profitability levels on our new single-family business would be sufficient to attract new private sector capital in the future, should the company be in a position to seek such capital. We generally must obtain FHFA’s approval in order to increase pricing in our guarantee business, and there can be no assurance FHFA will approve any such request. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011. Our business and financial condition will not benefit from the increases in guarantee fees under this law, as we must remit the proceeds from such increases to Treasury. It is currently unclear what effect this will have on our ability to raise guarantee fees that may be retained by us. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Legislated Increase to Guarantee Fees.” We are subject to mortgage credit risks, including mortgage credit risk relating to off-balance sheet arrangements; increased credit costs related to these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Mortgage credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to make timely payments on a mortgage we own or guarantee, exposing us to the risk of credit losses and credit-related expenses. We are primarily exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to the single-family and multifamily loans that we own or guarantee and hold on our consolidated balance sheets. We are also exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to securities and guarantee arrangements that are not reflected as assets on our consolidated balance sheets. These relate primarily to: (a) Freddie Mac mortgage-related securities backed by multifamily loans; (b) certain Other Guarantee Transactions; and (c) other guarantee commitments, including long-term standby commitments and liquidity guarantees. Significant factors that affect the level of our single-family mortgage credit risk include the credit profile of the borrower (e.g., credit score, credit history, and monthly income relative to debt payments), documentation level, the number of borrowers, the features of the mortgage loan, occupancy type, the type of property securing the mortgage, the LTV ratio of the loan, and local and regional economic conditions, including home prices and unemployment rates. Our credit losses will remain high for the foreseeable future due to the substantial number of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio on which borrowers owe more than their home is currently worth, as well as the substantial inventory of seriously delinquent loans. While mortgage interest rates remained low in 2011, many borrowers may not have been able to refinance into lower interest mortgages or reduce their monthly payments through mortgage modifications due to substantial declines in home values, market uncertainty, and continued high unemployment rates. Therefore, there can be no assurance that continued 53 Freddie Mac Table of Contents low mortgage interest rates or efforts to modify and refinance mortgages pursuant to the MHA Program (including pursuant to the revisions to HARP announced in October 2011) and to modify mortgages under our other loss mitigation initiatives will reduce our overall mortgage credit risk. We also continue to have significant amounts of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio with certain characteristics, such as Alt-A, interest-only, option ARMs, loans with original LTV ratios greater than 90%, and loans where borrowers had FICO scores less than 620 at the time of origination, that expose us to greater credit risk than do other types of mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2011, loans with one or more of the above characteristics comprised approximately 20% of our single-family credit guarantee portfolio. See “Table 50 — Certain Higher-Risk Categories in the Single-Family Credit Guarantee Portfolio” for more information. Beginning in 2008, the conforming loan limits were significantly increased for mortgages originated in certain “high cost” areas (the initial increases applied to loans originated after July 1, 2007). Due to our relative lack of experience with these “conforming jumbo” loans, purchases pursuant to the high cost conforming loan limits may also expose us to greater credit risks. The level of our multifamily mortgage credit risk is affected by the mortgaged property’s ability to generate rental income from which debt service can be paid. That ability in turn is affected by rental market conditions (e.g., rental and vacancy rates), the physical condition of the property, the quality of the property’s management, and the level of operating costs. For certain multifamily mortgage products, we utilize other forms of credit enhancement, such as subordination through Other Guarantee Transactions, which are intended to reduce our risk exposure. A risk we continue to monitor is that multifamily borrowers will default if they are unable to refinance their loans at an affordable rate. This risk is particularly important with respect to multifamily loans because such loans generally have a balloon payment and typically have a shorter contractual term than single-family mortgages. Borrowers may be less able to refinance their obligations during periods of rising interest rates or weak economic conditions, which could lead to default if the borrower is unable to find affordable refinancing. However, of the $116.1 billion in UPB of loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2011, only approximately 3% and 5% will reach their maturity during 2012 and 2013, respectively. We are exposed to significant credit risk related to the subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans that back the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities include securities that are backed by subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans. As of December 31, 2011, such securities represented approximately 54% of our total investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities. Since 2007, mortgage loan delinquencies and credit losses in the U.S. mortgage market have substantially increased, particularly in the subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM sectors of the residential mortgage market. In addition, home prices have declined significantly, after extended periods during which home prices appreciated. As a result, the fair value of these investments has declined significantly since 2007, and we have recorded substantial other-than-temporary impairments, which has adversely impacted stockholders equity (deficit). In addition, most of these investments do not trade in a liquid secondary market and the size of our holdings relative to normal market activity is such that, if we were to attempt to sell a significant quantity of these securities, the pricing in such markets could be significantly disrupted and the price we ultimately realize may be materially lower than the value at which we carry these investments on our consolidated balance sheets. We could experience additional GAAP losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in these non-agency mortgage-related securities if, among other things: (a) interest rates change; (b) delinquency and loss rates on subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans increase; (c) there is a further decline in actual or forecasted home prices; or (d) there is a deterioration in servicing performance. In addition, the fair value of these investments may decline further due to additional ratings downgrades or market events. Any credit enhancements covering these securities, including subordination and other structural enhancements, may not prevent us from incurring losses. During 2011, we continued to experience the erosion of structural credit enhancements on many securities backed by subprime first lien, option ARM, and Alt-A loans due to poor performance of the underlying mortgages. The financial condition of bond insurers also continued to deteriorate in 2011. See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Investments in Securities” for information about the credit ratings for these securities and the extent to which these securities have been downgraded. 54 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Certain strategies to mitigate our losses as an investor in non-agency mortgage-related securities may adversely affect our relationships with some of our largest seller/servicers. On September 2, 2011, FHFA announced that, as Conservator for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, it had filed lawsuits against 17 financial institutions and related defendants alleging: (a) violations of federal securities laws; and (b) in certain lawsuits, common law fraud in the sale of residential non-agency mortgage-related securities to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. These institutions include some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties. FHFA, as Conservator, filed a similar lawsuit against UBS Americas, Inc. and related defendants on July 27, 2011. FHFA seeks to recover losses and damages sustained by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae as a result of their investments in certain residential non-agency mortgage-related securities issued by these financial institutions. At the direction of our Conservator, we are working to enforce our rights as an investor with respect to the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold, and are engaged in other efforts to mitigate losses on our investments in these securities, in some cases in conjunction with other investors. For example, FHFA, as Conservator of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, has issued subpoenas to various entities seeking loan files and other transaction documents related to non-agency mortgage-related securities in which the two enterprises invested. FHFA stated that the documents will enable it to determine whether issuers of these securities and others are liable to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae for certain losses they have suffered on the securities. We are assisting FHFA in this effort. These and other loss mitigation efforts may lead to further disputes with some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties that may result in further litigation. This could adversely affect our relationship with any such company and could, for example, result in the loss of some or all of our business with a large seller/servicer. The effectiveness of these loss mitigation efforts is highly uncertain and any potential recoveries may take significant time to realize. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Non-Agency Mortgage-Related Security Issuers.” The credit losses we experience in future periods as a result of the housing and economic downturn are likely to be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. Our loan loss reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, do not reflect the total of all future credit losses we will ultimately incur with respect to our single-family and multifamily mortgage loans, including those underlying our financial guarantees. Rather, pursuant to GAAP, our reserves only reflect probable losses we believe we have already incurred as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, although we believe that our credit losses may exceed the amounts we have already reserved for loans currently identified as impaired, and that additional credit losses will be incurred in the future due to the housing and economic downturn, we are not permitted under GAAP to reflect the potential impact of these future trends in our loan loss reserves. As a result of the depth and extent of the housing and economic downturn, there is significant uncertainty regarding the full extent of future credit losses. Therefore, such credit losses are likely to be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. Additional credit losses we incur in future periods will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. Further declines in U.S. home prices or other adverse changes in the U.S. housing market could negatively impact our business and increase our losses. Throughout 2011, the U.S. housing market continued to experience adverse trends, including continued price depreciation, continued high serious delinquency and default rates, and extended foreclosure timelines. Low volumes of home sales and the continued large supply of unsold homes placed further downward pressure on home prices. These conditions, coupled with continued high unemployment, led to continued high loan delinquencies and provisioning for loan losses. Our credit losses remained high in 2011, in part because home prices have experienced significant cumulative declines in many geographic areas in recent years. We expect that national average home prices will continue to remain weak and will likely decline over the near term, which could result in a continued high rate of serious delinquencies or defaults and a level of credit-related losses higher than our expectations when our guarantees were issued. We prepare internal forecasts of future home prices, which we use for certain business activities, including: (a) hedging prepayment risk; (b) setting fees for new guarantee business; and (c) portfolio activities. It is possible that home price declines could be significantly greater than we anticipate, or that a sustained recovery in home prices would not begin until much later than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our performance of these business activities. For example, this could cause the return we earn on new single-family guarantee business to be less than expected. This could also result in higher losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities than would otherwise be recognized in earnings. Government programs designed to strengthen the 55 Freddie Mac Table of Contents U.S. housing market, such as the MHA Program, may fail to achieve expected results, and new programs could be instituted that cause our credit losses to increase. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk.” Our business volumes are closely tied to the rate of growth in total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. Total residential mortgage debt declined approximately 1.8% in the first nine months of 2011 (the most recent data available) compared to a decline of approximately 3.2% in 2010. If total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt were to continue to decline, there could be fewer mortgage loans available for us to purchase, and we could face more competition to purchase a smaller number of loans. While multifamily market fundamentals (i.e., vacancy rates and effective rents) improved during 2011, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Certain local multifamily markets exhibit relatively weak fundamentals, especially some of those hit hardest by residential home price declines. Any further softening of the broader economy could have negative impacts on multifamily markets, which could cause delinquencies and credit losses relating to our multifamily activities to increase beyond our current expectations. Our refinance volumes could decline if interest rates rise, which could cause our overall new mortgage-related security issuance volumes to decline. We continued to experience a high percentage of refinance mortgages in our purchase volume during 2011 due to continued low interest rates and the impact of our relief refinance mortgages. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. Overall originations of refinance mortgages, and our purchases of them, will likely decrease if interest rates rise and home prices remain at depressed levels. Originations of refinance mortgages will also likely decline after the Home Affordable Refinance Program expires in December 2013. In addition, many eligible borrowers have already refinanced at least once during this period of low interest rates, and therefore may be unlikely to do so again in the near future. It is possible that our overall mortgage-related security issuance volumes could decline if our volumes of purchase money mortgages do not increase to offset any such decrease in refinance mortgages. This could adversely affect the amount of revenue we receive from our guarantee activities. We could incur significant credit losses and credit-related expenses in the event of a major natural disaster or other catastrophic event in geographic areas in which portions of our total mortgage portfolio and REO holdings are concentrated. We own or guarantee mortgage loans and own REO properties throughout the United States. The occurrence of a major natural or environmental disaster (such as an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, or widespread damage caused to the environment by commercial entities), terrorist attack, pandemic, or similar catastrophic event in a regional geographic area of the United States could negatively impact our credit losses and credit-related expenses in the affected area. The occurrence of a catastrophic event could negatively impact a geographic area in a number of different ways, depending on the nature of the event. A catastrophic event that either damaged or destroyed residential real estate underlying mortgage loans we own or guarantee or negatively impacted the ability of homeowners to continue to make principal and interest payments on mortgage loans we own or guarantee could increase our serious delinquency rates and average loan loss severity in the affected region or regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Such an event could also damage or destroy REO properties we own. While we attempt to maintain a geographically diverse portfolio, there can be no assurance that a catastrophic event, depending on its magnitude, scope and nature, will not generate significant credit losses and credit-related expenses. We may not have insurance coverage for some of these catastrophic events. In some cases, we may be prohibited by state law from requiring such insurance as a condition to our purchasing or guaranteeing loans. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business, and our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more of our institutional counterparties do not meet their obligations to us. We face the risk that one or more of the institutional counterparties that has entered into a business contract or arrangement with us may fail to meet its obligations. We face similar risks with respect to contracts or arrangements we benefit from indirectly or that we enter into on behalf of our securitization trusts. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with: • mortgage seller/servicers; • mortgage insurers; 56 Freddie Mac Table of Contents • issuers, guarantors or third-party providers of other credit enhancements (including bond insurers); • counterparties to short-term lending and other investment-related agreements and cash equivalent transactions, including such agreements and transactions we manage for our PC trusts; • derivative counterparties; • hazard and title insurers; • mortgage investors and originators; and • document custodians and funds custodians. Many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. In some cases, our business with institutional counterparties is concentrated. The concentration of our exposure to our counterparties increased in recent periods due to industry consolidation and counterparty failures, and we continue to face challenges in reducing our risk concentrations with counterparties. Efforts we take to reduce exposure to financially weakened counterparties could further increase our exposure to other individual counterparties. In the future, our mortgage insurance exposure will be concentrated among a smaller number of counterparties. A significant failure by a major institutional counterparty could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways, including by adversely affecting our ability to conduct operations efficiently and at cost-effective rates, and have a material adverse effect on our investments in mortgage loans, investments in securities, our derivative portfolio or our credit guarantee activities. See “NOTE 16: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS” for additional information. Some of our counterparties may become subject to serious liquidity problems affecting their businesses, either temporarily or permanently, which may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In recent periods, challenging market conditions have adversely affected the liquidity and financial condition of our counterparties. These trends may continue. In particular, we believe all of our derivative portfolio and cash and other investments portfolio counterparties are exposed to fiscally troubled European countries. It is possible that continued adverse developments in the Eurozone could significantly impact such counterparties. In turn, this could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In the past few years, some of our largest seller/servicers have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints, and certain large lenders have failed. These challenging market conditions could also increase the likelihood that we will have disputes with our counterparties concerning their obligations to us, especially with respect to counterparties that have experienced financial strain and/or have large exposures to us. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk” for additional information regarding our credit risks to certain categories of counterparties and how we seek to manage them. The servicing of mortgage loans backing our single-family non-agency mortgage-related securities investments is concentrated in a small number of institutions. We could experience losses on these investments from servicing performance deterioration should one of these institutions come under financial distress. Furthermore, Freddie Mac’s rights as a non-agency mortgage-related securities investor to transfer servicing are limited. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if mortgage seller/servicers fail to repurchase loans sold to us in breach of representations and warranties or fail to honor any related indemnification or recourse obligations. We require seller/servicers to make certain representations and warranties regarding the loans they sell to us. If loans are sold to us in breach of those representations and warranties, we have the contractual right to require the seller/servicer to repurchase those loans from us. In lieu of repurchase, we may agree to allow a seller/servicer to indemnify us against losses on such mortgages or otherwise compensate us for the risk of continuing to hold the mortgages. Sometimes a seller/servicer sells us mortgages with recourse, meaning that the seller/servicer agrees to repurchase any mortgage that is delinquent for more than a specified period (usually 120 days), regardless of whether there has been a breach of representations and warranties. Some of our seller/servicers have failed to fully perform their repurchase obligations due to lack of financial capacity, while others, including many of our larger seller/servicers, have not fully performed their repurchase obligations in a timely manner. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the UPB of loans subject to repurchase requests based on breaches of representations and warranties issued to our single-family seller/servicers was approximately $2.7 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $1.2 billion of such loans were subject to repurchase requests issued due to mortgage insurance rescission or mortgage insurance claim denial. 57 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our contracts require that a seller/servicer repurchase a mortgage within 30 days after we issue a repurchase request, unless the seller/servicer avails itself of an appeal process provided for in our contracts, in which case the deadline for repurchase is extended until we decide the appeal. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 39% and 34%, respectively, of these repurchase requests were outstanding more than four months since issuance of our repurchase request (these figures included repurchase requests for which appeals were pending). The amount we collect on these requests and others we may make in the future could be significantly less than the UPB of the loans subject to the repurchase requests primarily because we expect many of these requests will likely be satisfied by reimbursement of our realized credit losses by seller/servicers, instead of repurchase of loans at their UPB, or may be rescinded in the course of the contractual appeals process. Based on our historical loss experience and the fact that many of these loans are covered by credit enhancement, we expect the actual credit losses experienced by us should we fail to collect on these repurchase requests will also be less than the UPB of the loans. We may also enter into agreements with seller/servicers to resolve claims for repurchases. The amounts we receive under any such agreements may be less than the losses we ultimately incur. Our credit losses may increase to the extent our seller/servicers do not fully perform their repurchase obligations. Enforcing repurchase obligations of seller/servicers who have the financial capacity to perform those obligations could also negatively impact our relationships with such customers and could result in the loss of some or all of our business with such customers, which could negatively impact our ability to retain market share. It may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming to legally enforce a seller/servicer’s repurchase obligations, in the event a seller/servicer continues to fail to perform such obligations. On October 24, 2011, FHFA, Freddie Mac, and Fannie Mae announced a series of FHFA-directed changes to HARP. We may face greater exposure to credit and other losses on these HARP loans because we are not requiring lenders to provide us with certain representations and warranties on these HARP loans. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program — Home Affordable Refinance Program and Relief Refinance Mortgage Initiative.” We also have exposure to seller/servicers with respect to mortgage insurance. When a mortgage insurer rescinds coverage or denies or curtails a claim, we may require the seller/servicer to repurchase the mortgage or to indemnify us for additional loss. The volume of rescissions, claim denials, and curtailments by mortgage insurers remains high. We face the risk that seller/servicers may fail to perform their obligations to service loans in our single-family and multifamily mortgage portfolios or that their servicing performance could decline. Our seller/servicers have a significant role in servicing loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio, which includes an active role in our loss mitigation efforts. Therefore, a decline in their performance could impact our credit performance (including through missed opportunities for mortgage modifications), which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and have a significant impact on our ability to mitigate credit losses. The risk of such a decline in performance remains high. The high levels of seriously delinquent loan volume, the ongoing weak conditions of the mortgage market, and the number and variety of additions and changes to HAMP and our other loan modification and loss mitigation initiatives have placed a strain on the loss mitigation resources of many of our seller/servicers. This has also increased the operational complexity of the servicing function, as well as the risk that errors will occur. A number of seller/servicers have had to address issues relating to the improper preparation and execution of certain documents used in foreclosure proceedings, which has further strained their resources. There have also been a number of regulatory developments that have increased, or could increase, the complexity of the servicing function. It is also possible that we could be directed to introduce additional changes to the servicing function that increase its complexity, such as new or revised loan modification or loss mitigation initiatives or new compensation arrangements. Our expected ability to partially mitigate losses through loan modifications and other alternatives to foreclosure is a factor we consider in determining our allowance for loan losses. Therefore, the inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our loss mitigation plans could cause our losses to be significantly higher than those currently estimated. Weak economic conditions continue to affect the liquidity and financial condition of many of our seller/servicers, including some of our largest seller/servicers. Any efforts we take to attempt to improve our servicers’ performance could adversely affect our relationships with such servicers, many of which also sell loans to us. If a servicer does not fulfill its servicing obligations (including its repurchase or other responsibilities), we may seek partial or full recovery of the amounts that such servicer owes us, such as by attempting to sell the applicable mortgage servicing rights to a different servicer and applying the proceeds to such owed amounts, or by contracting the servicing responsibilities to a different servicer and retaining the net servicing fee. The ongoing weakness in the housing market has negatively affected the market for mortgage servicing rights, which increases the risk that we might not receive a 58 Freddie Mac Table of Contents sufficient price for such rights or that we may be unable to find buyers who: (a) have sufficient capacity to service the affected mortgages in compliance with our servicing standards; (b) are willing to assume the representations and warranties of the former servicer regarding the affected mortgages (which we typically require); and (c) have sufficient capacity to service all of the affected mortgages. Increased industry consolidation, bankruptcies of mortgage bankers or bank failures may also make it more difficult for us to sell such rights, because there may not be sufficient capacity in the market, particularly in the event of multiple failures. This option may be difficult to accomplish with respect to our larger seller/servicers due to operational and capacity challenges of transferring a large servicing portfolio. The financial stress on servicers and increased costs of servicing may lead to strategic defaults (i.e., defaults done deliberately as a financial strategy, and not involuntarily) by servicers, which would also require us to seek a successor servicer. Our seller/servicers also have a significant role in servicing loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio. We are exposed to the risk that multifamily seller/servicers could come under financial pressure, which could potentially cause degradation in the quality of the servicing they provide us including their monitoring of each property’s financial performance and physical condition. This could also, in certain cases, reduce the likelihood that we could recover losses through lender repurchases, recourse agreements, or other credit enhancements, where applicable. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Single-family Mortgage Seller/Servicers” and “— Multifamily Mortgage Seller/Servicers” for additional information on our institutional credit risk related to our mortgage seller/servicers. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of our counterparties to derivatives, funding, and other transactions. We use derivatives for several purposes, including to regularly adjust or rebalance our funding mix in response to changes in the interest-rate characteristics of our mortgage-related assets and to hedge forecasted issuances of debt. The relative concentration of our derivative exposure among our primary derivative counterparties remains high. This concentration increased in the last several years due to industry consolidation and the failure of certain counterparties, and could further increase. Three of our derivative counterparties each accounted for greater than 10% of our net uncollateralized exposure, excluding commitments, at December 31, 2011. For a further discussion of our exposure to derivative counterparties, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Derivative Counterparties” and “NOTE 16: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS.” Some of our derivative and other capital markets counterparties have experienced various degrees of financial distress in the past few years, including liquidity constraints, credit downgrades, and bankruptcy. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of these derivative and other capital markets counterparties to the extent that they fail to meet their obligations to us. For example, our OTC derivative counterparties are required to post collateral in certain circumstances to cover our net exposure to them on derivative contracts. We may incur losses if the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices that are sufficient to cover the amount of such exposure. Our ability to engage in routine derivatives, funding, and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide disruptions in which it may be difficult for us to find acceptable counterparties for such transactions. We also use derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. Thus, if our access to the derivative markets were disrupted, it may become more difficult or expensive to fund our business activities and achieve the funding mix we desire, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our credit losses and other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings could increase if our mortgage or bond insurers become insolvent or fail to perform their obligations to us. We are exposed to risk relating to the potential insolvency of or non-performance by mortgage insurers that insure single-family mortgages we purchase or guarantee and bond insurers that insure certain of the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. The weakened financial condition and liquidity position of these counterparties increases the risk that these entities will fail to fully reimburse us for claims under insurance policies. This risk could increase if home prices deteriorate further or if the economy worsens. 59 Freddie Mac Table of Contents As a guarantor, we remain responsible for the payment of principal and interest if a mortgage insurer fails to meet its obligations to reimburse us for claims. Thus, if any of our mortgage insurers that provide credit enhancement fails to fulfill its obligation, we could experience increased credit losses. In addition, if a regulator determined that a mortgage insurer lacked sufficient capital to pay all claims when due, the regulator could take action that might impact the timing and amount of claim payments made to us. We independently assess the financial condition, including the claims-paying resources, of each of our mortgage insurers. Based on our analysis of the financial condition of a mortgage insurer and pursuant to our eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers, we could take action against a mortgage insurer intended to protect our interests that may impact the timing and amount of claims payments received from that insurer. We expect to receive substantially less than full payment of our claims from Triad Guaranty Insurance Corp., Republic Mortgage Insurance Company and PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. We also believe that certain other of our mortgage insurance counterparties may lack sufficient ability to meet all their expected lifetime claims paying obligations to us as such claims emerge. In the event one or more of our bond insurers were to become insolvent, it is likely that we would not collect all of our claims from the affected insurer. This would impact our ability to recover certain unrealized losses on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities, and could contribute to net impairment of available-for-sale securities recognized in earnings. We evaluate the expected recovery from primary bond insurance policies as part of our impairment analysis for our investments in securities. If a bond insurer’s performance with respect to its obligations on our investments in securities is worse than expected, this could contribute to additional net impairment of those securities. In addition, the fair values of our securities may further decline, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. We expect to receive substantially less than full payment from several of our bond insurers, including Ambac Assurance Corporation and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, due to adverse developments concerning these companies. Ambac Assurance Corporation and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company are currently not paying any of their claims. We believe that some of our other bond insurers may also lack sufficient ability to fully meet all of their expected lifetime claims-paying obligations to us as such claims emerge. For more information on developments concerning our mortgage insurers and bond insurers, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Mortgage Insurers” and “— Bond Insurers.” If mortgage insurers were to further tighten their standards or fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements, the volume of high LTV ratio mortgages available for us to purchase could be reduced, which could reduce our overall volume of new business. Mortgage insurance standards could constrain our future ability to purchase loans with LTV ratios over 80%. Our charter requires that single-family mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% at the time of purchase be covered by specified credit enhancements or participation interests. Our purchases of mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% (other than relief refinance mortgages) have declined in recent years, in part because mortgage insurers tightened their eligibility requirements with respect to the issuance of insurance on new mortgages with such higher LTV ratios. If mortgage insurers further restrict their eligibility requirements for such loans, or if we are no longer willing or able to obtain mortgage insurance from these counterparties under terms we find reasonable, and we are not able to avail ourselves of suitable alternative methods of obtaining credit enhancement for these loans, we may be further restricted in our ability to purchase or securitize loans with LTV ratios over 80% at the time of purchase. This could further reduce our overall volume of new business. This could also negatively impact our ability to participate in a significant segment of the mortgage market (i.e., loans with LTV ratios over 80%) should we seek, or be directed, to do so. If a mortgage insurance company were to fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements and not obtain appropriate waivers, it could become subject to regulatory actions that restrict its ability to write new business in certain, or in some cases all, states. During the third quarter of 2011, Republic Mortgage Insurance Company and PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. were prohibited from writing new business by their primary state regulators and neither writes new business in any state any longer. Given the difficulties in the mortgage insurance industry, we believe it is likely that other companies may be unable to meet regulatory capital requirements. A mortgage insurer may attempt a corporate restructuring designed to enable it to continue to write new business through a new entity in the event the insurer falls out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements. However, there can be no assurance that an insurer would be able to accomplish such a restructuring, as the restructured entity would be required to satisfy regulatory requirements as well as our own conditions. These restructuring plans generally involve contributing capital to a subsidiary or affiliate. This could result in less liquidity available to the existing mortgage insurer to pay claims on its existing book of business, and an increased risk that the mortgage insurer would not pay its claims in full in the future. We monitor the claim paying ability of our mortgage insurers. As these restructuring plans are presented 60 Freddie Mac Table of Contents to us for review, we attempt to determine whether the insurers’ plans make available sufficient resources to meet their obligations to policyholders of the insurance entities involved in the restructuring. However, there can be no assurance that any such restructuring will enable payment in full of all claims in the future. See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES — Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guarantee Losses — Single-Family Loans” for more information. We could incur increased credit losses if our seller/servicers enter into arrangements with mortgage insurers for settlement of future rescission activity and such agreements could potentially reduce the ability of mortgage insurers to pay claims to us. Under our contracts with our seller/servicers, the rescission or denial of mortgage insurance on a loan is grounds for us to make a repurchase request to the seller/servicer. At least one of our largest servicers has entered into arrangements with two of our mortgage insurance counterparties under which the servicer pays and/or indemnifies the insurer in exchange for the mortgage insurer agreeing not to issue mortgage insurance rescissions or denials of coverage on Freddie Mac mortgages. When such an agreement is in place, we are unable to make repurchase requests based solely on a rescission of insurance or denial of coverage. Thus, there is a risk that we will experience higher credit losses if we do not independently identify other areas of noncompliance with our contractual requirements and require lenders to repurchase the loans we own. Additionally, there could be a negative financial impact on our mortgage insurers’ ability to pay their other obligations to us if the payments they receive from the seller/servicers are insufficient to compensate them for the insurance claims paid that would have otherwise been denied. As guarantor of the insured loans, we remain responsible for the payment of principal and interest if a mortgage insurer fails to meet its obligation to reimburse us for claims, and this could increase our credit losses. In April 2011, we issued an industry letter to our servicers reminding them that they may not enter into these types of agreements without our consent. Several of our servicers have asked us to consent to these types of agreements. We are evaluating these requests on a case by case basis. The loss of business volume from key lenders could result in a decline in our market share and revenues. Our business depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans. We purchase a significant percentage of our single-family mortgages from several large mortgage originators. During 2011 and 2010, approximately 82% and 78%, respectively, of our single-family mortgage purchase volume was associated with our ten largest customers. During 2011, two mortgage lenders (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) each accounted for more than 10% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume and collectively accounted for approximately 40% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume. Similarly, we acquire a significant portion of our multifamily mortgage loans from several large lenders. We enter into mortgage purchase volume commitments with many of our single-family customers that provide for the customers to deliver to us a certain volume of mortgages during a specified period of time. Some commitments may also provide for the lender to deliver to us a minimum percentage of their total sales of conforming loans. There is a risk that we will not be able to enter into new commitments with our key single-family customers that will maintain mortgage purchase volume following the expiration of our existing commitments with them. Since 2007, the mortgage industry has consolidated significantly and a smaller number of large lenders originate most single-family mortgages. The loss of business from any one of our major lenders could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. Many of our seller/servicers also have tightened their lending criteria in recent years, which has reduced their loan volume, thus reducing the volume of loans available for us to purchase. Ongoing weak business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including conditions in the international markets for our investments or our mortgage-related and debt securities. These conditions include employment rates, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, the strength of the U.S. financial markets and national economy and the local economies in which we conduct business, and the economies of other countries that purchase our mortgage-related and debt securities. Concerns about fiscal challenges in several Eurozone economies intensified during 2011, creating significant uncertainty in the financial markets and potential increased risk exposure for our counterparties and for us. There is also significant uncertainty regarding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery. If the U.S. economy remains weak, we could experience continued high serious delinquencies and credit losses, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 61 Freddie Mac Table of Contents The mortgage credit markets continue to be impacted by a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity within the mortgage industry, causing disruptions to normal operations of major mortgage servicers and, at times, originators, including some of our largest customers. This has also contributed to significant volatility, wide credit spreads and a lack of price transparency, and the potential for further consolidation within the financial services industry. Competition from banking and non-banking companies may harm our business. Competition in the secondary mortgage market combined with a decline in the amount of residential mortgage debt outstanding may make it more difficult for us to purchase mortgages. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressures may make our products less attractive in the market and negatively impact our financial results. Increased competition from Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, and FHA/VA may alter our product mix, lower volumes, and reduce revenues on new business. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor, and FHFA’s actions as Conservator of both companies could affect competition between us and Fannie Mae. It is possible that FHFA could require us and Fannie Mae to take a common approach that, because of differences in our respective businesses, could place Freddie Mac at a competitive disadvantage to Fannie Mae. Efforts we may make or may be directed to make to increase the profitability of new single-family guarantee business, such as by tightening credit standards or raising guarantee fees, could cause our market share to decrease and the volume of our single-family guarantee business to decline. Historically, we also competed with other financial institutions that retain or securitize mortgages, such as commercial and investment banks, dealers, thrift institutions, and insurance companies. While many of these institutions have ceased or substantially reduced their activities in the secondary market for single-family mortgages since 2008, it is possible that these institutions will reenter the market. Beginning in 2010, some market participants began to re-emerge in the multifamily market, and we have faced increased competition from other institutional investors. We could be prevented from competing efficiently and effectively by competitors who use their patent portfolios to prevent us from using necessary business processes and products, or to require us to pay significant royalties to use those processes and products. Our investment activities may be adversely affected by limited availability of financing and increased funding costs. The amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial institutions and the capital markets, directly impacts our interest expense and results of operations. A number of factors could make such financing more difficult to obtain, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, both domestically and internationally, including: • termination of, or future restrictions or other adverse changes with respect to, government support programs that may benefit us; • reduced demand for our debt securities; • competition for debt funding from other debt issuers; and • downgrades in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of the U.S. government. Our ability to obtain funding in the public debt markets or by pledging mortgage-related securities as collateral to other financial institutions could cease or change rapidly, and the cost of available funding could increase significantly due to changes in market confidence and other factors. For example, in the fall of 2008, we experienced significant deterioration in our access to the unsecured medium- and long-term debt markets, and were forced to rely on short-term debt to fund our purchases of mortgage assets and refinance maturing debt and to rely on derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. We follow certain liquidity management practices and procedures. However, in the event we were unable to obtain funding from the public debt markets, there can be no assurance that such practices and procedures would provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing cash obligations for an extended period. Since 2008, the ratings on the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold backed by Alt-A, subprime, and option ARM loans have decreased, limiting their availability as a significant source of liquidity for us through sales or use as collateral in secured lending transactions. In addition, adverse market conditions have negatively impacted our ability to enter into secured lending transactions using agency securities as collateral. These trends are likely to continue in the future. The composition of our mortgage-related investments portfolio has changed significantly since we entered into conservatorship, as our holdings of single-family whole loans have significantly increased and our holdings of agency 62 Freddie Mac Table of Contents mortgage-related securities have significantly declined. This changing composition presents heightened liquidity risk, which influences management’s decisions regarding funding and hedging. Government Support Changes or perceived changes in the government’s support of us could have a severe negative effect on our access to the debt markets and our debt funding costs. Under the Purchase Agreement, the $200 billion cap on Treasury’s funding commitment will increase as necessary to accommodate any cumulative reduction in our net worth during 2010, 2011, and 2012. While we believe that the support provided by Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement currently enables us to maintain our access to the debt markets and to have adequate liquidity to conduct our normal business activities, the costs of our debt funding could vary due to the uncertainty about the future of the GSEs and potential investor concerns about the adequacy of funding available to us under the Purchase Agreement after 2012. The cost of our debt funding could increase if debt investors believe that the risk that we could be placed into receivership is increasing. In addition, under the Purchase Agreement, without the prior consent of Treasury, we may not increase our total indebtedness above a specified limit or become liable for any subordinated indebtedness. For more information, see “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Actions of Treasury and FHFA.” We do not currently have a liquidity backstop available to us (other than draws from Treasury under the Purchase Agreement and Treasury’s ability to purchase up to $2.25 billion of our obligations under its permanent statutory authority) if we are unable to obtain funding from issuances of debt or other conventional sources. At present, we are not able to predict the likelihood that a liquidity backstop will be needed, or to identify the alternative sources of liquidity that might be available to us if needed, other than from Treasury as referenced above. Demand for Debt Funding The willingness of domestic and foreign investors to purchase and hold our debt securities can be influenced by many factors, including changes in the world economy, changes in foreign-currency exchange rates, regulatory and political factors, as well as the availability of and preferences for other investments. If investors were to divest their holdings or reduce their purchases of our debt securities, our funding costs could increase and our business activities could be curtailed. The willingness of investors to purchase or hold our debt securities, and any changes to such willingness, may materially affect our liquidity, business and results of operations. Competition for Debt Funding We compete for low-cost debt funding with Fannie Mae, the FHLBs, and other institutions. Competition for debt funding from these entities can vary with changes in economic, financial market, and regulatory environments. Increased competition for low-cost debt funding may result in a higher cost to finance our business, which could negatively affect our financial results. An inability to issue debt securities at attractive rates in amounts sufficient to fund our business activities and meet our obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. See “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Other Debt Securities” for a description of our debt issuance programs. Our funding costs may also be affected by changes in the amount of, and demand for, debt issued by Treasury. Line of Credit We maintain a secured intraday line of credit to provide additional intraday liquidity to fund our activities through the Fedwire system. This line of credit requires us to post collateral to a third party. In certain circumstances, this secured counterparty may be able to repledge the collateral underlying our financing without our consent. In addition, because the secured intraday line of credit is uncommitted, we may not be able to continue to draw on it if and when needed. Any downgrade in the credit ratings of the U.S. government would likely be followed by a downgrade in our credit ratings. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our debt could adversely affect our liquidity and other aspects of our business. Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations play an important role in determining, by means of the ratings they assign to issuers and their debt, the availability and cost of funding. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. We currently receive ratings from three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch) for our unsecured borrowings. These ratings are primarily based on the support we receive from Treasury, and therefore are affected by changes in the credit ratings of the U.S. government. 63 Freddie Mac Table of Contents On August 2, 2011, President Obama signed the “Budget and Control Act of 2011” which raised the U.S. government’s statutory debt limit. The raising of the statutory debt limit and details outlined in the legislation to reduce the deficit resulted in actions on the ratings of the U.S. government and our debt, including: (a) on August 5, 2011, S&P lowered the long-term credit rating of the United States to “AA+” from “AAA” and assigned a negative outlook to the rating; and (b) on August 8, 2011, S&P lowered our senior long-term debt credit rating to “AA+” from “AAA” and assigned a negative outlook to the rating. As a result of this downgrade, we posted additional collateral to certain derivative counterparties in accordance with the terms of the collateral agreements with such counterparties. For more information, see “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Credit Ratings.” S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch have indicated that additional actions on the U.S. government’s ratings could occur if steps toward a credible deficit reduction plan are not taken or if the U.S. experiences a weaker than expected economic recovery. Any downgrade in the credit ratings of the U.S. government would be expected to be followed or accompanied by a downgrade in our credit ratings. In addition to a downgrade in the credit ratings of or outlook on the U.S. government, a number of events could adversely affect our debt credit ratings, including actions by governmental entities or others, changes in government support for us, additional GAAP losses, and additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. Such actions could lead to major disruptions in the mortgage market and to our business due to lower liquidity, higher borrowing costs, lower asset values, and higher credit losses, and could cause us to experience much greater net losses and net worth deficits. The full range and extent of the adverse effects to our business that would result from any such ratings downgrades and market disruptions cannot be predicted with certainty. However, we expect that they could: (a) adversely affect our liquidity and cause us to limit or suspend new business activities that entail outlays of cash; (b) make new issuances of debt significantly more costly, or potentially prohibitively expensive, and adversely affect the supply of debt financing available to us; (c) reduce the value of our guarantee to investors and adversely affect our ability to issue our guaranteed mortgage-related securities; (d) reduce the value of Treasury and agency mortgage securities we hold; (e) increase the cost of mortgage financing for borrowers, thereby reducing the supply of mortgages available to us to purchase; (f) adversely affect home prices, reducing the value of our REO and likely leading to additional borrower defaults on mortgage loans we guarantee; and (g) trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts. Any decline in the price performance of or demand for our PCs could have an adverse effect on the volume and profitability of our new single-family guarantee business. Our PCs are an integral part of our mortgage purchase program. We purchase many mortgages by issuing PCs in exchange for them in guarantor swap transactions. We also issue PCs backed by mortgage loans that we purchased for cash. Our competitiveness in purchasing single-family mortgages from our seller/servicers, and thus the volume and profitability of new single-family business, can be directly affected by the relative price performance of our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities. Increasing demand for our PCs helps support the price performance of our PCs, which in turn helps us compete with Fannie Mae and others in purchasing mortgages. Our PCs have typically traded at a discount to comparable Fannie Mae securities, which creates an incentive for customers to conduct a disproportionate share of their guarantor business with Fannie Mae and negatively impacts the economics of our business. Various factors, including market conditions and the relative rates at which the underlying mortgages prepay, affect the price performance of our PCs. The changes to HARP (announced by FHFA on October 24, 2011) could adversely affect the price performance of our PCs, to the extent they cause the loans underlying our PCs to refinance at a faster rate than loans underlying comparable Fannie Mae securities (or cause the perception that loans underlying our PCs will refinance at a faster rate). While we employ a variety of strategies to support the price performance of our PCs and may consider further strategies, any such strategies may fail or adversely affect our business or we may cease such activities if deemed appropriate. We may incur costs to support the liquidity and price performance of our securities. In certain circumstances, we compensate customers for the difference in price between our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities. However, this could adversely affect the profitability and market share of our single-family guarantee business. Beginning in 2012, under guidance from FHFA we expect to curtail mortgage-related investments portfolio purchase and retention activities that are undertaken for the primary purpose of supporting the price performance of our PCs, which may result in a significant decline in the market share of our single-family guarantee business, lower comprehensive income, and a more rapid decline in the size of our total mortgage portfolio. If these developments occur, it may be difficult and expensive for us to reverse or mitigate them through PC price support activities, should we desire or be directed to do so. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Our Business Segments — Single-Family Guarantee Segment — Securitization Activities” and “— Investments Segment — PC Support Activities.” 64 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain a liquid and deep market for our PCs, which could also adversely affect the price performance of PCs. A significant reduction in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize could reduce the liquidity of our PCs. Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We rely on representations and warranties by seller/servicers about the characteristics of the single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize, and we do not independently verify most of the information that is provided to us before we purchase the loan. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (such as the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, loan officer, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about a mortgage loan or a borrower. While we subsequently review a sample of these loans to determine if such loans are in compliance with our contractual standards, there can be no assurance that this would detect or deter mortgage fraud, or otherwise reduce our exposure to the risk of fraud. We are also exposed to fraud by third parties in the mortgage servicing function, particularly with respect to sales of REO properties, single-family short sales, and other dispositions of non-performing assets. We may experience significant financial losses and reputational damage as a result of such fraud. The value of mortgage-related securities guaranteed by us and held as investments may decline if we were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish. A portion of our investments in mortgage-related securities are securities guaranteed by us. Our valuation of these securities is consistent with GAAP and the legal structure of the guarantee transaction. These securities include the Freddie Mac assets transferred to the securitization trusts that serve as collateral for the mortgage-related securities issued by the trusts (i.e., (a) multifamily PCs; (b) REMICs and Other Structured Securities; and (c) certain Other Guarantee Transactions). The valuation of our guaranteed mortgage-related securities necessarily reflects investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee and the liquidity that our guarantee provides. If we were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish, the value of our guaranteed securities may decline, thereby reducing the value of the securities reported on our consolidated balance sheets, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. This could also adversely affect our ability to sell or otherwise use these securities for liquidity purposes. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and fair value of net assets. Our investment activities and credit guarantee activities expose us to interest rate and other market risks. Changes in interest rates, up or down, could adversely affect our net interest yield. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, either can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest yield to expand or compress. For example, due to the timing of maturities or rate reset dates on variable-rate instruments, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets. This rate change could cause our net interest yield to compress until the effect of the increase is fully reflected in asset yields. Changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest yield. Our GAAP results can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates, and adverse changes in interest rates could increase our GAAP net loss or deficit in total equity (deficit) materially. For example, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our derivative portfolio. Since we generally record changes in fair values of our derivatives in current income, such changes could significantly impact our GAAP results. While derivatives are an important aspect of our management of interest-rate risk, they generally increase the volatility of reported net income (loss), because, while fair value changes in derivatives affect net income, fair value changes in several of the types of assets and liabilities being hedged do not affect net income. We could record substantial gains or losses from derivatives in any period, which could significantly contribute to our overall results for the period and affect our net equity (deficit) as of the end of such period. It is difficult for us to predict the amount or direction of derivative results. Additionally, increases in interest rates could increase other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities. Changes in interest rates may also affect prepayment assumptions, thus potentially impacting the fair value of our assets, including our investments in mortgage-related assets. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. An increased likelihood of prepayment on the mortgages underlying our mortgage-related securities may adversely impact the value of these securities. When interest rates increase, our credit losses from ARM and interest-only ARM loans may increase as borrower payments increase at their reset dates, which increases the borrower’s risk of default. Rising interest rates may also reduce the opportunity for these borrowers to refinance into a fixed-rate loan. 65 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Interest rates can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including changes in the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, such as the Federal Reserve. Federal Reserve policies directly and indirectly influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. The availability of derivative financial instruments (such as options and interest rate and foreign currency swaps) from acceptable counterparties of the types and in the quantities needed could also affect our ability to effectively manage the risks related to our investment funding. Our strategies and efforts to manage our exposures to these risks may not be effective. In particular, in recent periods, a number of factors have made it more difficult for us to estimate future prepayments, including uncertainty regarding default rates, unemployment, loan modifications, the impact of FHFA-directed changes to HARP (announced in October 2011), and the volatility and impact of home price movements on mortgage durations. This could make it more difficult for us to manage prepayment risk, and could cause our hedging-related losses to increase. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” for a description of the types of market risks to which we are exposed and how we seek to manage those risks. Changes in OAS could materially impact our fair value of net assets and affect future results of operations and stockholders’ equity (deficit). OAS is an estimate of the incremental yield spread between a given security and an agency debt yield curve. This includes consideration of potential variability in the security’s cash flows resulting from any options embedded in the security, such as prepayment options. The OAS between the mortgage and agency debt sectors can significantly affect the fair value of our net assets. The fair value impact of changes in OAS for a given period represents an estimate of the net unrealized increase or decrease in the fair value of net assets arising from net fluctuations in OAS during that period. We do not attempt to hedge or actively manage the impact of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. Changes in market conditions, including changes in interest rates or liquidity, may cause fluctuations in OAS. A widening of the OAS on a given asset, which typically causes a decline in the current fair value of that asset, may cause significant mark-to-fair value losses, and may adversely affect our financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit), but may increase the number of attractive investment opportunities in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities. Conversely, a narrowing or tightening of the OAS typically causes an increase in the current fair value of that asset, but may reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities. Consequently, a tightening of the OAS may adversely affect our future financial results and stockholders’ equity (deficit). See “MD&A — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AND ANALYSIS — Consolidated Fair Value Balance Sheets Analysis — Discussion of Fair Value Results” for a more detailed description of the impacts of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. While wider spreads might create favorable investment opportunities, we are limited in our ability to take advantage of any such opportunities due to various restrictions on our mortgage-related investments portfolio activities. See “BUSINESS — Conservatorship and Related Matters — Impact of Conservatorship and Related Actions on Our Business — Limits on Investment Activity and Our Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio.” We could experience significant reputational harm, which could affect the future of our company, if our efforts under the MHA Program and other initiatives to support the U.S. residential mortgage market do not succeed. We are focused on the servicing alignment initiative, the MHA Program and other initiatives to support the U.S. residential mortgage market. If these initiatives do not achieve their desired results, or are otherwise perceived to have failed to achieve their objectives, we may experience damage to our reputation, which may impact the extent of future government support for our business and government decisions with respect to the future status and role of Freddie Mac. Negative publicity causing damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results, or net worth. Reputation risk, or the risk to our financial results and net worth from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers or otherwise impair our customer relationships, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, impede our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, hinder our business prospects, or adversely impact the trading price of our securities. Perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, our seller/servicers or the financial services and mortgage industries as a whole, particularly as they relate to the current housing and economic downturn, may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputation impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may impair market confidence or investor confidence in our business operations as well. In addition, negative publicity could expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences, including greater regulatory scrutiny or adverse regulatory or legislative changes, and could 66 Freddie Mac Table of Contents affect what changes may occur to our business structure during or following conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. These adverse consequences could result from perceptions concerning our activities and role in addressing the housing and economic downturn, concern about our compensation practices, concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices or our actual or alleged action or failure to act in any number of areas, including corporate governance, regulatory compliance, financial reporting and disclosure, purchases of products perceived to be predatory, safeguarding or using nonpublic personal information, or from actions taken by government regulators in response to our actual or alleged conduct. The servicing alignment initiative, MHA Program, and other efforts to reduce foreclosures, modify loan terms and refinance mortgages, including HARP, may fail to mitigate our credit losses and may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The servicing alignment initiative, MHA Program, and other loss mitigation activities are a key component of our strategy for managing and resolving troubled assets and lowering credit losses. However, there can be no assurance that any of our loss mitigation strategies will be successful and that credit losses will not continue to escalate. The costs we incur related to loan modifications and other activities have been, and will likely continue to be, significant because we bear the full cost of the monthly payment reductions related to modifications of loans we own or guarantee, and all applicable servicer and borrower incentives. We are not reimbursed for these costs by Treasury. For information on our loss mitigation activities, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program.” We could be required or elect to make changes to our implementation of our other loss mitigation activities that could make these activities more costly to us, both in terms of credit expenses and the cost of implementing and operating the activities. For example, we could be required to, or elect to, use principal reduction to achieve reduced payments for borrowers. This could further increase our losses, as we could bear the full costs of such reductions. A significant number of loans are in the trial period of HAMP or the trial period of our new non-HAMP standard loan modification. For information on completion rates for HAMP and non-HAMP modifications, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program.” A number of loans will fail to complete the applicable trial period or qualify for our other loss mitigation programs. For these loans, the trial period will have effectively delayed the foreclosure process and could increase our losses, to the extent the prices we ultimately receive for the foreclosed properties are less than the prices we could have received had we foreclosed upon the properties earlier, due to continued home price declines. These delays in foreclosure could also cause our REO operations expense to increase, perhaps substantially. Mortgage modification initiatives, particularly any future focus on principal reductions (which at present we do not offer to borrowers), have the potential to change borrower behavior and mortgage underwriting. Principal reductions may create an incentive for borrowers that are current to become delinquent in order to receive a principal reduction. This, coupled with the phenomenon of widespread underwater mortgages, could significantly affect borrower attitudes towards homeownership, the commitment of borrowers to making their mortgage payments, the way the market values residential mortgage assets, the way in which we conduct business and, ultimately, our financial results. Depending on the type of loss mitigation activities we pursue, those activities could result in accelerating or slowing prepayments on our PCs and REMICs and Other Structured Securities, either of which could affect the pricing of such securities. On October 24, 2011, FHFA, Freddie Mac, and Fannie Mae announced a series of FHFA-directed changes to HARP in an effort to attract more eligible borrowers whose monthly payments are current and who can benefit from refinancing their home mortgages. The Acting Director of FHFA stated that the goal of pursuing these changes is to create refinancing opportunities for more borrowers whose mortgages are owned or guaranteed by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, while reducing risk for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and bringing a measure of stability to housing markets. However, there can be no assurance that the revisions to HARP will be successful in achieving these objectives or that any benefits from the revised program will exceed our costs. We may face greater exposure to credit and other losses on these HARP loans because we are not requiring lenders to provide us with certain representations and warranties on these HARP loans. In addition, changes in expectations of mortgage prepayments could result in declines in the fair value of our investments in certain agency securities and lower net interest yields over time on other mortgage-related investments. The ultimate impact of the HARP revisions on our financial results will be driven by the level of borrower participation and the volume of loans with high LTV ratios that we acquire under the program. Over time, relief refinance mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% may not perform as well as relief refinance mortgages with LTV ratios of 80% and below because of the continued high LTV ratios of these loans. There is an increase in borrower default risk as LTV ratios increase, particularly 67 Freddie Mac Table of Contents for loans with LTV ratios above 80%. In addition, relief refinance mortgages may not be covered by mortgage insurance for the full excess of their UPB over 80%. We are devoting significant internal resources to the implementation of the servicing alignment initiative and the MHA Program, which has, and will continue to, increase our expenses. The size and scope of these efforts may also limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities or corporate initiatives. We may experience further write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including our investment securities, net deferred tax assets, REO properties or mortgage loans, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We experienced significant losses and write-downs relating to certain of our assets during the past several years, including significant declines in market value, impairments of our investment securities, market-based write-downs of REO properties, losses on non-performing loans removed from PC pools, and impairments on other assets. The fair value of our assets may be further adversely affected by continued weakness in the economy, further deterioration in the housing and financial markets, additional ratings downgrades, or other events. We increased our valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets by $2.3 billion during 2011. The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be affected by actions of the Conservator, and legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company. The uncertainty of these developments could materially affect our operations, which could in turn affect our ability or intent to hold investments until the recovery of any temporary unrealized losses. If future events significantly alter our current outlook, a valuation allowance may need to be established for the remaining deferred tax asset. Due to the ongoing weaknesses in the economy and in the housing and financial markets, we may experience additional write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including those that are currently AAA-rated, and the fair values of our assets may continue to decline. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our equity securities. Our equity securities are not likely to have any value beyond the short-term. Our common stock and classes of preferred stock that previously were listed and traded on the NYSE were delisted from the NYSE effective July 8, 2010, and now trade on the OTC market. The market price of our common stock declined significantly between June 16, 2010, the date we announced our intention to delist these securities, and July 8, 2010, the first day the common stock traded exclusively on the OTC market, and may decline further. Trading volumes on the OTC market have been, and will likely continue to be, less than those on the NYSE, which would make it more difficult for investors to execute transactions in our securities and could make the prices of our securities decline or be more volatile. The Acting Director of FHFA has stated that “[Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] equity holders retain an economic claim on the companies but that claim is subordinate to taxpayer claims. As a practical matter, taxpayers are not likely to be repaid in full, so [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] stock lower in priority is not likely to have any value.” Operational Risks We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses and we may otherwise be adversely affected by delays and deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by delays in the foreclosure process, which could increase our expenses. The average length of time for foreclosure of a Freddie Mac loan significantly increased in recent years, and may continue to increase. A number of factors have contributed to this increase, including: (a) the increasingly lengthy foreclosure process in many states; and (b) concerns about deficiencies in seller/servicers’ conduct of the foreclosure process. More recently, regulatory developments impacting mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices have also contributed to these delays. For more information on these developments, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Developments Concerning Single-Family Servicing Practices.” Delays in the foreclosure process could cause our credit losses to increase for a number of reasons. For example, properties awaiting foreclosure could deteriorate until we acquire ownership of them through foreclosure. This would increase our expenses to repair and maintain the properties when we do acquire them. Such delays may also adversely affect the values of, and our losses on, the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Delays in the foreclosure 68 Freddie Mac Table of Contents process may also adversely affect trends in home prices regionally or nationally, which could also adversely affect our financial results. It also is possible that mortgage insurance claims could be reduced if delays caused by servicers’ deficient foreclosure practices prevent servicers from completing foreclosures within required timelines defined by mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance companies establish foreclosure timelines that vary by state and range between 30 and 960 days. Delays in the foreclosure process could create fluctuations in our single-family credit statistics. For example, our realization of credit losses, which consists of REO operations income (expense) plus charge-offs, net, could be delayed because we typically record charge-offs at the time we take ownership of a property through foreclosure. Delays could also temporarily increase the number of seriously delinquent loans that remain in our single-family mortgage portfolio, which could result in higher reported serious delinquency rates and a larger number of non-performing loans than would otherwise have been the case. In the fall of 2010, several large seller/servicers announced issues relating to the improper preparation and execution of certain documents used in foreclosure proceedings. These announcements raised various concerns relating to foreclosure practices. A number of our seller/servicers, including several of our largest ones, temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in certain states while they evaluated and addressed these issues. While the larger servicers generally resumed foreclosure proceedings in early 2011, single-family mortgages in our portfolio have continued to experience significant delays in the foreclosure process in 2011, as compared to periods before these issues arose, particularly in states that require a judicial foreclosure process. These and other factors could also delay sales of our REO properties. In addition, a group consisting of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators is reviewing foreclosure practices. We have terminated the eligibility of several law firms to serve as counsel in foreclosures of Freddie Mac mortgages, due to issues with respect to the firms’ foreclosure practices. It is possible that additional deficiencies in foreclosure practices will be identified. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses related to deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices and the costs of remediating them, which may be significant. These expenses include costs related to terminating the eligibility of certain law firms and other incremental costs. We may also incur costs if we become involved in litigation or investigations relating to these issues. It will take time for seller/servicers to complete their evaluations of these issues and implement remedial actions. The integrity of the foreclosure process is critical to our business, and our financial results could be adversely affected by deficiencies in the conduct of that process. Issues related to mortgages recorded through the MERS System could delay or disrupt foreclosure activities and have an adverse effect on our business. The Mortgage Electronic Registration System, or the MERS® System, is an electronic registry that is widely used by seller/servicers, Freddie Mac, and other participants in the mortgage finance industry, to maintain records of beneficial ownership of mortgages. The MERS System is maintained by MERSCORP, Inc., a privately held company, the shareholders of which include a number of organizations in the mortgage industry, including Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and certain seller/servicers, mortgage insurance companies, and title insurance companies. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., or MERS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, Inc., has the ability to serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and in that role become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. Freddie Mac seller/servicers may choose to use MERS as a nominee. Approximately 42% of the loans Freddie Mac owns or guarantees were registered in MERS’ name as of December 31, 2011; the beneficial ownership and the ownership of the servicing rights related to those loans are tracked in the MERS System. In the past, Freddie Mac servicers had the option of initiating foreclosure in MERS’ name. On March 23, 2011, we informed our servicers that they no longer may initiate foreclosures in MERS’ name for those mortgages owned or guaranteed by us and registered with MERS that are referred to foreclosure on or after April 1, 2011. As of April 1, 2011, foreclosure of mortgages owned or guaranteed by us for which MERS serves as nominee is accomplished by MERS assigning the record ownership of the mortgage to the servicer, and the servicer initiating foreclosure in its own name. Many of our servicers were following this procedure before the March 23 announcement. MERS has also been the subject of numerous lawsuits challenging foreclosures on mortgages for which MERS is mortgagee of record as nominee for the beneficial owner. For example, on February 3, 2012, the Attorney General of the State of New York filed a lawsuit against MERSCORP, Inc., MERS and several large banks alleging, among other items, that the creation and use of the MERS System has resulted in a wide range of deceptive and fraudulent foreclosure filings in New York state and federal courts. It is possible that adverse judicial decisions, regulatory proceedings or action, or 69 Freddie Mac Table of Contents legislative action related to MERS, could delay or disrupt foreclosure of mortgages that are registered on the MERS System. Publicity concerning regulatory or judicial decisions, even if such decisions were not adverse, or MERS-related concerns about the integrity of the assignment process, could adversely affect the mortgage industry and negatively impact public confidence in the foreclosure process, which could lead to legislative or regulatory action. Because MERS often executes legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings, it is possible that investigations by governmental authorities and others into deficiencies in foreclosure practices may negatively impact MERS and the MERS System. Federal or state legislation or regulatory action could prevent us from using the MERS System for mortgages that we currently own, guarantee, and securitize and for mortgages acquired in the future, or could create additional requirements for the transfer of mortgages that could affect the process for and costs of acquiring, transferring, servicing, and foreclosing mortgages. Such legislation or regulatory action could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, we could be required to transfer mortgages out of the MERS System. There is also uncertainty regarding the extent to which seller/servicers will choose to use the MERS System in the future. Failures by MERS to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process could pose legal and operational risks for us. We may also face significant reputational risk due to our ties to MERS, as we are a shareholder of MERSCORP, Inc., and a Freddie Mac officer serves on the board of directors of both entities. We cannot predict the impact that such events or actions may have on our business. On April 13, 2011, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and FHFA entered into a consent order with MERS and MERSCORP, Inc., which stated that such federal regulators had identified certain deficiencies and unsafe or unsound practices by MERS and MERSCORP, Inc. that present financial, operational, compliance, legal, and reputational risks to MERSCORP, Inc. and MERS, and to its participating members, including Freddie Mac. The consent order requires MERS and MERSCORP, Inc. to, among other things, create and submit plans to ensure that MERS and MERSCORP, Inc. (a): are operated in a safe and sound manner and have adequate financial strength and staff; (b) improve communications with MERSCORP, Inc. shareholders and members; (c) intensify the monitoring of and response to litigation; and (d) establish processes to ensure data quality and strengthen certain aspects of corporate governance. The federal banking regulators have also indicated that MERSCORP, Inc. should take action to simplify its governance structure, which could involve us giving up certain governance rights. It is unclear what changes will ultimately be made and whether there will be any consequent impact on Freddie Mac’s relationship with and rights with respect to the two entities. Weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and in disclosure controls could result in errors and inadequate disclosures, affect operating results, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results. We face continuing challenges because of deficiencies in our controls. Control deficiencies could result in errors, and lead to inadequate or untimely disclosures, and affect operating results. Control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial results, which may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our securities. For information about our ineffective disclosure controls and two material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, see “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” There are a number of factors that may impede our efforts to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, including: (a) the nature of the conservatorship and our relationship with FHFA; (b) the complexity of, and significant changes in, our business activities and related GAAP requirements; (c) significant employee and management turnover; (d) internal reorganizations; (e) uncertainty regarding the sustainability of newly established controls; (f) data quality or servicing-related issues; and (g) the uncertain impacts of the ongoing housing and economic downturn on the results of our models, which are used for financial accounting and reporting purposes. Disruptive levels of employee turnover could negatively impact our internal control environment, including internal control over financial reporting, and ability to issue timely financial statements. During 2011, we experienced significant changes to our internal control environment as a result of resignations, terminations, or changes in responsibility. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve and maintain our internal control over financial reporting will ultimately be successful. Effectively designed and operated internal control over financial reporting provides only reasonable assurance that material errors in our financial statements will be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting increases the risk of a material error in our reported financial results and delay in our financial reporting timeline. Depending on the nature of a control failure and any required remediation, ineffective controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. 70 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We face risks and uncertainties associated with the internal models that we use for financial accounting and reporting purposes, to make business decisions, and to manage risks. Market conditions have raised these risks and uncertainties. We make significant use of business and financial models for financial accounting and reporting purposes and to manage risk. We face risk associated with our use of models. First, there is inherent uncertainty associated with model results. Second, we could fail to properly implement, operate, or use our models. Either of these situations could adversely affect our financial statements and our ability to manage risks. We use market-based information as inputs to our models. However, it can take time for data providers to prepare information, and thus the most recent information may not be available for the preparation of our financial statements. When market conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is an increased risk that the inputs reflected in our models are not representative of current market conditions. The severe deterioration of the housing and credit markets beginning several years ago and, more recently, the extended period of economic weakness and uncertainty has increased the risks associated with our use of models. For example, certain economic events or the implementation of government policies could create increased model uncertainty as models may not fully capture these events, which makes it more difficult to assess model performance and requires a higher degree of management judgment. Our models may not perform as well in situations for which there are few or no recent historical precedents. We have adjusted our models in response to recent events, but there remains considerable uncertainty about model results. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Our models rely on various assumptions that may be incorrect, including that historical experience can be used to predict future results. It has been more difficult to predict the behaviors of the housing and credit capital markets and market participants over the past several years, due to, among other factors: (a) the uncertainty concerning trends in home prices; (b) the lack of historical evidence about the behavior of deeply underwater borrowers, the effect of an extended period of extremely low interest rates on prepayments, and the impact of widespread loan refinancing and modification programs (such as HARP and HAMP), including the potential for the extensive use of principal reductions; and (c) the impact of the concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices and related delays in the foreclosure process. We face the risk that we could fail to implement, operate, or adjust or use our models properly. This risk may be increasing due to our difficulty in attracting and retaining employees with the necessary experience and skills. For example, the assumptions underlying a model could be invalid, or we could apply a model to events or products outside the model’s intended use. We may fail to code a model correctly or we could use incorrect data. The complexity and interconnectivity of our models create additional risk regarding the accuracy of model output. While we have processes and controls in place designed to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurances that such processes and controls will be successful. Management often needs to exercise judgment to interpret or adjust modeled results to take into account new information or changes in conditions. The dramatic changes in the housing and credit capital markets in recent years have required frequent adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment in the interpretation and adjustment of the results produced by our models. This further increases both the uncertainty about model results and the risk of errors in the implementation, operation, or use of the models. We face the risk that the valuations, risk metrics, amortization results, loan loss reserve estimations, and security impairment charges produced by our internal models may be different from actual results, which could adversely affect our business results, cash flows, fair value of net assets, business prospects, and future financial results. For example, our models may under-predict the losses we will suffer in various aspects of our business. Changes in, or replacements of, any of our models or in any of the assumptions, judgments, or estimates used in the models may cause the results generated by the model to be materially different from those generated by the prior model. The different results could cause a revision of previously reported financial condition or results of operations, depending on when the change to the model, assumption, judgment, or estimate is implemented. Any such changes may also cause difficulties in comparisons of the financial condition or results of operations of prior or future periods. Due to increased uncertainty about model results, we also face increased risk that we could make poor business decisions in areas where model results are an important factor, including loan purchases, management and guarantee fee pricing, asset and liability management, market risk management, and quality-control sampling strategies for loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio. Furthermore, any strategies we employ to attempt to manage the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective. See “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES” and “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK — Interest-Rate Risk and Other Market Risks” for more information on our use of models. 71 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Changes in our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, are “critical,” as they are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and they require management to make particularly difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates, often regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ from our estimates and the use of different judgments and assumptions related to these policies and estimates could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a description of our critical accounting policies, see “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES.” From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised accounting guidance could result in material adverse effects to our stockholders’ equity (deficit) and result in or contribute to the need for additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. FHFA may require us to change our accounting policies to align more closely with those of Fannie Mae. FHFA may also require us and Fannie Mae to have the same independent public accounting firm. Either of these events could significantly increase our expenses and require a substantial time commitment of management. See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” for more information. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and cause losses. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people, or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, errors in our financial statements, disruption of our business, liability to customers, further legislative or regulatory intervention, or reputational damage. Servicing and loss mitigation processes are currently under considerable stress, which increases the risk that we may experience further operational problems in the future. Our core systems and technical architecture include many legacy systems and applications that lack scalability and flexibility, which increases the risk of system failure. While we are working to enhance the quality of our infrastructure, we have had difficulty in the past conducting large-scale infrastructure improvement projects. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and manage and analyze significant amounts of information, much of which is provided by third parties. The transactions we process are complex and are subject to various legal, accounting, and regulatory standards. The types of transactions we process and the standards relating to those transactions can change rapidly in response to external events, such as the implementation of government-mandated programs and changes in market conditions. Our financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. The information provided by third parties may be incorrect, or we may fail to properly manage or analyze it. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions or new types of transactions or products could constrain our ability to pursue new business initiatives or change or improve existing business activities. Our employees could act improperly for their own gain and cause unexpected losses or reputational damage. While we have processes and systems in place designed to prevent and detect fraud, there can be no assurance that such processes and systems will be successful. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearinghouses, or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our customers, and manage our exposure to risk. Most of our key business activities are conducted in our principal offices located in McLean, Virginia and represent a concentrated risk of people, technology, and facilities. Despite the contingency plans and local recovery facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business would be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the geographical area in which we are located. Potential disruptions may include outages or disruptions to electrical, communications, transportation, or other services we use or that are provided to us. If a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to 72 Freddie Mac Table of Contents service and interact with our customers or counterparties may deteriorate and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that allow us to carry out critical business functions at an acceptable level. Due to the concentrated risk and inadequate distribution of resources nationally, we are also exposed to the risk that a catastrophic event, such as a terrorist event or natural disaster, could result in a significant business disruption and an inability to process transactions through normal business processes. Any measures we take to mitigate this risk may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. Freddie Mac management has determined that current business recovery capabilities would not be effective in the event of a catastrophic regional business event and could result in a significant business disruption and inability to process transactions through normal business processes. While management has developed a remediation plan to address the current capability gaps, any measures we take to mitigate this risk may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. We have experienced significant management changes, internal reorganizations, and turnover of key staff, which could increase our operational and control risks and have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. Internal reorganizations, inability to retain key executives and staff members, and our efforts to reduce administrative expenses may increase the stress on existing processes, leading to operational or control failures and harm to our financial performance and results of operations. A number of senior officers left the company in 2011, including our Chief Operating Officer, our Executive Vice President — Single-Family Credit Guarantee, our Executive Vice President — Investments and Capital Markets and Treasurer, our Executive Vice President — Multifamily, our Senior Vice President — Operations & Technology, our Executive Vice President — General Counsel & Corporate Secretary, our Executive Vice President — Chief Credit Officer, and our Senior Vice President — Interim General Counsel & Corporate Secretary. On October 26, 2011, FHFA announced that our Chief Executive Officer has expressed his desire to step down in 2012. We also experienced several significant internal reorganizations in 2011 and significant employee turnover. The magnitude of these changes and the short time interval in which they have occurred, particularly during the ongoing housing and economic downturn, add to the risks of operational or control failures, including a failure in the effective operation of our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures. Control failures could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruptive levels of turnover among both executives and other employees could lead to breakdowns in any of our operations, affect our ability to execute ongoing business activities, cause delays and disruptions in the implementation of FHFA-directed and other important business initiatives, delay or disrupt critical technology and other projects, and erode our business, modeling, internal audit, risk management, information security, financial reporting, legal, compliance, and other capabilities. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Operational Risks” and “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” In addition, management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by these and future reorganizations and the continuing need to operate under the framework of conservatorship. We may not be able to protect the security of our systems or the confidentiality of our information from cyber attack and other unauthorized access, disclosure, and disruption. Our operations rely on the secure receipt, processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks and with our business partners. Like many corporations and government entities, from time to time we have been, and likely will continue to be, the target of cyber attacks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, and because some techniques involve social engineering attempts addressed to employees who may have insufficient knowledge to recognize them, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have invested significant resources in our information security program, there is a risk that it could prove to be inadequate to protect our computer systems, software, and networks. Our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to internal or external cyber attack, unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems or misuse our confidential information. Our employees may be vulnerable to social engineering efforts that cause a breach in our security that otherwise would not exist as a technical matter. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize or result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or corruption of confidential and other information, including nonpublic personal information and other sensitive business data, processed, stored in, or transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our 73 Freddie Mac Table of Contents operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. This could result in significant losses or reputational damage, adversely affect our relationships with our customers and counterparties, and adversely affect our ability to purchase loans, issue securities or enter into and execute other business transactions. We could also face regulatory action. Internal or external attackers may seek to steal, corrupt or disclose confidential financial assets, intellectual property, and other sensitive information. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured. We rely on third parties for certain important functions, including some that are critical to financial reporting, our mortgage-related investment activity, and mortgage loan underwriting. Any failures by those vendors could disrupt our business operations. We outsource certain key functions to external parties, including: (a) processing functions for trade capture, market risk management analytics, and financial instrument valuation; (b) custody and recordkeeping for our mortgage-related investments; (c) processing functions for mortgage loan underwriting and servicing; (d) certain services we provide to Treasury in our role as program compliance agent under HAMP; and (e) certain technology infrastructure and operations. We may enter into other key outsourcing relationships in the future. If one or more of these key external parties were not able to perform their functions for a period of time, at an acceptable service level, or for increased volumes, our business operations could be constrained, disrupted, or otherwise negatively impacted. Our use of vendors also exposes us to the risk of a loss of intellectual property or of confidential information or other harm. We may also be exposed to reputational harm, to the extent vendors do not conduct their activities under appropriate ethical standards. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to provide services to us. Our risk management efforts may not effectively mitigate the risks we seek to manage. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate operational risks, interest rate and other market risks and credit risks related to our business. Our risk management policies, procedures and techniques may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks we have identified or to appropriately identify additional risks to which we are subject. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” and “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT” for a discussion of our approach to managing certain of the risks we face. Legal and Regulatory Risks The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulation may adversely affect our business activities and financial results. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the regulation of the financial services industry and could affect us in substantial and unforeseeable ways and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes could impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose significant additional costs on us, limit the products we offer, require us to increase our regulatory capital, or make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit management and other employees. We will also face a more complicated regulatory environment due to the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes, which will increase compliance costs and could divert management attention or other resources. The Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes will also significantly affect many aspects of the financial services industry and potentially change the business practices of our customers and counterparties; it is possible that any such changes could adversely affect our business and financial results. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is being accomplished through numerous rulemakings, many of which are still in process. The final effects of the legislation will not be known with certainty until these rulemakings are complete. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the preparation of studies of a wide range of issues, which could lead to additional legislative or regulatory changes. It could be difficult for us to comply with any future regulatory changes in a timely manner, due to the potential scope and number of such changes, which could limit our operations and expose us to liability. The long-term impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes on our business and the financial services industry will depend on a number of factors that are difficult to predict, including our ability to successfully implement any changes to our business, changes in consumer behavior, and our competitors’ and customers’ responses to the Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes. 74 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Examples of aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that may significantly affect us include the following: • The new Financial Stability Oversight Council could designate Freddie Mac as a non-bank financial company to be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. If this occurs, the Federal Reserve will have authority to examine Freddie Mac and we may be required to meet more stringent prudential standards than those applicable to other non-bank financial companies. New prudential standards could include requirements related to risk-based capital and leverage, liquidity, single-counterparty credit limits, overall risk management and risk committees, stress tests, and debt-to-equity limits, among other requirements. • The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on the derivatives market. Large derivatives users, which may include Freddie Mac, will be subject to extensive new oversight and regulation. These new regulatory standards could impose significant additional costs on us related to derivatives transactions and it may become more difficult for us to enter into desired hedging transactions with acceptable counterparties on favorable terms. • The Dodd-Frank Act will create new standards and requirements related to asset-backed securities, including requiring securitizers and potentially originators to retain a portion of the underlying loans’ credit risk. Any such new standards and requirements could weaken or remove incentives for financial institutions to sell mortgage loans to us. • The Dodd-Frank Act and related future regulatory changes could negatively impact the volume of mortgage originations, and thus adversely affect the number of mortgages available for us to purchase or guarantee. • Under the Dodd-Frank Act, new minimum mortgage underwriting standards will be required for residential mortgages, including a requirement that lenders make a reasonable and good faith determination based on “verified and documented information” that the consumer has a “reasonable ability to repay” the mortgage. The Act requires regulators to establish a class of qualified loans that will receive certain protections from legal liability, such as the borrower’s right to rescind the loan and seek damages. Mortgage originators and assignees, including Freddie Mac, may be subject to increased legal risk for loans that do not meet these requirements. • Under the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators, including FHFA, are directed to promulgate regulations, to be applicable to financial institutions, including Freddie Mac, that will prohibit incentive-based compensation structures that the regulators determine encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss. It is possible that any such regulations will have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and recruit management and other employees, as we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to other potential employers not subject to these or similar regulations. For more information on the Dodd-Frank Act, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments.” Legislative or regulatory actions could adversely affect our business activities and financial results. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, and possible GSE reform discussed in “Conservatorship and Related Matters — The future status and role of Freddie Mac is uncertain and could be materially adversely affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company,” our business initiatives may be directly adversely affected by other legislative and regulatory actions at the federal, state, and local levels. We could be negatively affected by legislation or regulatory action that changes the foreclosure process of any individual state. For example, various states and local jurisdictions have implemented mediation programs designed to bring servicers and borrowers together to negotiate workout options. These actions could delay the foreclosure process and increase our expenses, including by potentially delaying the final resolution of seriously delinquent mortgage loans and the disposition of non-performing assets. We could also be affected by any legislative or regulatory changes that would expand the responsibilities and liability of servicers and assignees for maintaining vacant properties prior to foreclosure. These laws and regulatory changes could significantly expand mortgage costs and liabilities. We could be affected by any legislative or regulatory changes to existing bankruptcy laws or proceedings or foreclosure processes, including any changes that would allow bankruptcy judges to unilaterally change the terms of mortgage loans. We could be affected by legislative or regulatory changes that permit or require principal reductions, including through the bankruptcy process. Our business could also be adversely affected by any modification, reduction, or repeal of the federal income tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments. Pursuant to the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, FHFA has been directed to require Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to increase guarantee fees by no less than 10 basis points above the average guarantee fees charged in 2011 on single-family mortgage-backed securities to fund the payroll tax cut. If we are found to be out of compliance 75 Freddie Mac Table of Contents with this requirement of the Act for two consecutive years, we will be precluded from providing any guarantee for a period to be determined by FHFA, but in no case less than one year. Legislation or regulatory actions could indirectly adversely affect us to the extent such legislation or actions affect the activities of banks, savings institutions, insurance companies, securities dealers, and other regulated entities that constitute a significant part of our customer base or counterparties, or could indirectly affect us to the extent that they modify industry practices. Legislative or regulatory provisions that create or remove incentives for these entities to sell mortgage loans to us, purchase our securities or enter into derivatives, or other transactions with us could have a material adverse effect on our business results and financial condition. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is in the process of substantially revising capital guidelines for financial institutions and has finalized portions of the so-called “Basel III” guidelines, which would set new capital and liquidity requirements for banks. Phase-in of Basel III is expected to take several years and there is significant uncertainty about how regulators might implement these guidelines or how the resulting regulations might impact us. For example, it is possible that any new regulations on the capital treatment of mortgage servicing rights, risk-based capital requirements for credit risk, and liquidity treatment of our debt and guarantee obligations could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We may make certain changes to our business in an attempt to meet the housing goals and subgoals set for us by FHFA that may increase our losses. We may make adjustments to our mortgage loan sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to meet our housing goals and subgoals, including changes to our underwriting standards and the expanded use of targeted initiatives to reach underserved populations. For example, we may purchase loans that offer lower expected returns on our investment and increase our exposure to credit losses. Doing so could cause us to forgo other purchase opportunities that we would expect to be more profitable. If our current efforts to meet the goals and subgoals prove to be insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could further increase our losses. FHFA has not yet published a final rule with respect to our duty to serve underserved markets. However, it is possible that we could also make changes to our business in the future in response to this duty. If we do not meet our housing goals or duty to serve requirements, and FHFA finds that the goals or requirements were feasible, we may become subject to a housing plan that could require us to take additional steps that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are involved in legal proceedings, governmental investigations, and IRS examinations that could result in the payment of substantial damages or otherwise harm our business. We are a party to various legal actions, including litigation in the U.S. Tax Court as result of a dispute of certain tax matters with the IRS related to our 1998 through 2005 federal income tax returns. In addition, certain of our current and former directors, officers, and employees are involved in legal proceedings for which they may be entitled to reimbursement by us for costs and expenses of the proceedings. The defense of these or any future claims or proceedings could divert management’s attention and resources from the needs of the business. We may be required to establish reserves and to make substantial payments in the event of adverse judgments or settlements of any such claims, investigations, proceedings, or examinations. Any legal proceeding, governmental investigation, or examination issue, even if resolved in our favor, could result in negative publicity or cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Furthermore, developments in, outcomes of, impacts of, and costs, expenses, settlements, and judgments related to these legal proceedings and governmental investigations and examinations may differ from our expectations and exceed any amounts for which we have reserved or require adjustments to such reserves. We are also cooperating with other investigations, such as the review being conducted by state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators into foreclosure practices. These proceedings could divert management’s attention or other resources. See “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” and “NOTE 18: LEGAL CONTINGENCIES” for information about our pending legal proceedings and “NOTE 13: INCOME TAXES” for information about our litigation with the IRS relating to potential additional income taxes and penalties for the 1998 to 2005 tax years and other tax-related matters. 76 Freddie Mac Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 