RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks, including the risks described below and in “BUSINESS,” “MD&A,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and/or prospects. 49 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Conservatorship and Related Matters The future status and role of Freddie Mac is uncertain and could be materially adversely affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company. The Acting Director of FHFA stated on November 15, 2011 that “the long-term outlook is that neither [Freddie Mac nor Fannie Mae] will continue to exist, at least in its current form, in the future.” Future legislation will likely materially affect the role of the company, our business model, our structure, and future results of operations. Some or all of our functions could be transferred to other institutions, and we could cease to exist as a stockholder-owned company or at all. If any of these events were to occur, our shares could further diminish in value, or cease to have any value, and there can be no assurance that our stockholders would receive any compensation for such loss in value. While there have not been significant legislative developments on the future status of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in recent quarters, it is likely that bills related to GSE reform will be introduced and considered during the 113th Congress that began in January 2013. There were a number of significant developments in 2011, including the Administration’s February 2011 report to Congress that, among other items, recommends reducing the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and ultimately winding down both companies. In addition, a number of bills were introduced in Congress in 2011 concerning the future status of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, including several bills that would have wound down Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (or completely restructured the companies). FHFA is driving significant changes in our business model, primarily in our single-family guarantee business, through its strategic plan for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and the Conservatorship Scorecard. At the time FHFA released its strategic plan, it stated that the steps envisioned in the plan were consistent with each of the housing finance reform frameworks set forth in the Administration’s February 2011 report, as well as with the leading congressional proposals previously introduced. In addition, FHFA has expansive regulatory authority over us, and the manner in which FHFA will use its authority in the future is unclear. FHFA could take a number of regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our company, such as changing or reinstating our current capital requirements, which are not binding during conservatorship, or imposing additional restrictions on our portfolio activities or new initiatives. For more information on the Administration’s February 2011 report, proposed GSE reform legislation, and FHFA’s strategic plan and the Conservatorship Scorecard, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments.” The conservatorship is indefinite in duration and the timing, conditions, and likelihood of our emerging from conservatorship are uncertain. Even if the conservatorship is terminated, we would remain subject to the Purchase Agreement, senior preferred stock, and warrant. FHFA has stated that there is no exact time frame as to when the conservatorship may end. Termination of the conservatorship (other than in connection with receivership) also requires Treasury’s consent under the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance as to when, and under what circumstances, Treasury would give such consent. There is also significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. It is possible that the conservatorship will end with us being placed into receivership. In addition, Treasury has the ability to acquire almost 80% of our common stock for nominal consideration by exercising the warrant we issued to it pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Consequently, the company could effectively remain under the control of the U.S. government even if the conservatorship was ended and the voting rights of common stockholders restored. The warrant held by Treasury, the restrictions on our business contained in the Purchase Agreement, and the senior status of the senior preferred stock issued to Treasury under the Purchase Agreement, if the senior preferred stock has not been redeemed, also could adversely affect our ability to attract new private sector capital in the future should the company be in a position to seek such capital. Moreover, we do not have the ability over the long-term to retain any capital generated by our business operations. Under the Purchase Agreement, as revised on August 17, 2012, we are required to pay dividends to the extent that our Net Worth Amount exceeds a permitted capital reserve amount. The amount of this reserve decreases over time. Accordingly, over the long-term, we will not be able to build or retain any net worth surplus or return capital to stockholders other than Treasury. 50 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We may request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in future periods. We may request additional draws under the Purchase Agreement in future periods. The need for any such future draws will be determined by a variety of factors that could adversely affect our net worth or our ability to generate comprehensive income, including the following: • how long and to what extent the U.S. economy and housing market, including home prices, remain weak, which could increase credit expenses and cause additional other-than-temporary impairments of the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold; • foreclosure prevention and other loss mitigation efforts, and foreclosure processing delays, which could increase our expenses; • competitiveness with other mortgage market participants, including Fannie Mae; • adverse changes in interest rates, the yield curve, implied volatility or mortgage-to-debt OAS, which could increase realized and unrealized mark-to-fair value losses recorded in earnings or AOCI; • required reductions in the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio and other limitations on our investment activities that reduce the earnings capacity of our investment activities; • adverse changes in our funding costs or limitations in our access to public debt markets; • changes in accounting practices or guidance; • effects of the MHA Program and other government initiatives, including any future requirements to reduce the principal amount of loans; • losses resulting from control failures, including any control failures because of our inability to retain staff; • prohibition on developing new products and limitations on our ability to enter into new lines of business; • introduction of additional public mission-related initiatives that may adversely affect our financial results; • establishment of additional valuation allowances for our remaining net deferred tax asset; or • changes in business practices resulting from legislative and regulatory developments or direction from our Conservator. Through the fourth quarter of 2012, we paid cash dividends to Treasury on the senior preferred stock at an annual rate of 10%. In past periods, this fixed-rate dividend obligation substantially contributed to draws under the Purchase Agreement. However, on August 17, 2012, Freddie Mac, acting through FHFA, as Conservator, and Treasury entered into an amendment to the Purchase Agreement. Under this amendment, the fixed dividend rate was replaced with a net worth sweep dividend beginning in the first quarter of 2013. This effectively ends the circular practice of Treasury advancing funds to us to pay dividends back to Treasury. As a result, beginning in 2013, the need for future draws will not be driven by the dividend obligation. This amendment also suspended the periodic commitment fee, beginning in the first quarter of 2013. The amount of the net worth sweep dividend could vary substantially from quarter to quarter for a number of reasons, including as a result of non-cash changes in net worth. It is possible that, due to non-cash changes in net worth, the amount of our dividend for a quarter could exceed the amount of available cash, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Although additional draws under the Purchase Agreement will allow us to remain solvent and avoid mandatory receivership, they will also increase the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, which was $72.3 billion as of December 31, 2012. In addition, draws we take for deficits in our net worth will reduce the amount of available funding remaining under the Purchase Agreement, which beginning January 1, 2013, is $140.5 billion. Additional draws and corresponding increases in the already substantial liquidation preference, along with limited flexibility to redeem the senior preferred stock, may add to the uncertainty regarding our long-term financial sustainability. Our business objectives and strategies have in some cases been significantly altered since we were placed into conservatorship, and may continue to change, in ways that negatively affect our future financial condition and results of operations. Our current business objectives reflect direction we have received from the Conservator (including the Conservatorship Scorecard), and have changed considerably since we entered into conservatorship. See “BUSINESS — Executive Summary — Our Primary Business Objectives” for more information. 51 Freddie Mac Table of Contents At the direction of the Conservator, we have made changes to certain business practices that are designed to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives but may not contribute to our profitability. Some of these changes have increased our expenses or caused us to forego revenue opportunities. For example, FHFA has directed that we implement various initiatives under the MHA Program. We have incurred significant costs associated with the implementation of these initiatives and we cannot currently estimate whether, or the extent to which, costs incurred in the near term from these initiatives may be offset, if at all, by the prevention or reduction of potential future costs of serious delinquencies and foreclosures due to these initiatives. The Conservator and Treasury have also not authorized us to engage in certain business activities and transactions, including the purchase or sale of certain assets, which we believe might have had a beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition, if executed. Other agencies of the U.S. government, as well as Congress, also have an interest in the conduct of our business. We do not know what actions they may request us to take. In view of the conservatorship and the reasons stated by FHFA for its establishment, it is likely that our business model and strategic objectives will continue to change, possibly significantly, including in pursuit of our public mission and other non-financial objectives. Among other things, we could experience significant changes in the size, growth, and characteristics of our guarantee activities, and we could further change our operational objectives, including our pricing strategy in our core mortgage guarantee business. One of FHFA’s goals for conservatorship, as set forth in its strategic plan, is to contract our presence in the mortgage market and shrink our operations. The conservatorship has significantly affected our investment activity, and we may face further restrictions on this activity. For example, on August 17, 2012, the Purchase Agreement was amended to, among other items, accelerate the wind-down of our mortgage-related investments portfolio. Accordingly, our strategic and operational focus may not always be consistent with the generation of net income. It is possible that we will make material changes to our capital strategy and to our accounting policies, methods, and estimates. In addition, we may be directed to engage in initiatives that are operationally difficult or costly to implement, unprofitable, or that otherwise adversely affect our financial results. For example, FHFA has directed us to take various actions in support of the objectives of a gradual transition to greater private capital participation in housing finance and greater distribution of risk to participants other than the government, such as developing security structures that allow for private sector risk sharing. FHFA, as our Conservator, could further change our business objectives and strategies at any time. As our Conservator, FHFA possesses all of the powers of our stockholders, officers, and directors. During the conservatorship, the Conservator has delegated certain authority to the Board of Directors to oversee, and to management to conduct, day-to-day operations so that the company can continue to operate in the ordinary course of business. However, FHFA has the ability to withdraw or revise its delegations of authority and override actions of our Board of Directors or management at any time. The directors serve on behalf of, and exercise authority as directed by, the Conservator. In addition, FHFA has the power to take actions without our knowledge that could be material to investors and could significantly affect our financial performance. These changes and other factors could have material adverse effects on, among other things, our portfolio growth, net worth, credit losses, net interest income, guarantee fee income, net deferred tax assets, loan loss reserves, and future results of operations and financial condition, and thus could contribute to a need for additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. In light of the significant uncertainty surrounding these changes, there can be no assurances regarding our future profitability. We have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives that could lead to suboptimal outcomes for these objectives. We have a variety of different, and potentially competing, objectives. For example, we are focused on the following primary business objectives: (a) providing credit availability for mortgages and maintaining foreclosure prevention activities; (b) minimizing our credit losses; (c) developing mortgage market enhancements in support of a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market; (d) maintaining sound credit quality on the loans we purchase or guarantee; (e) contracting the dominant presence of the GSEs in the marketplace; and (f) strengthening our infrastructure and improving overall efficiency while also focusing on retention of key employees. However, FHFA has also stated that the focus of the conservatorship is on, among other items, conserving assets and minimizing corporate losses. These objectives can create conflicts in strategic and day-to-day decision making that could lead to suboptimal outcomes for one or more, or possibly all, of these objectives. For example, our efforts to provide credit availability for mortgages and maintain foreclosure prevention activities could increase our expenses, thereby affecting our ability to 52 Freddie Mac Table of Contents conserve assets and minimize corporate losses. Failure to achieve a satisfactory outcome with respect to any one objective could lead to negative publicity and damage our reputation. We may face increased operational risk from these competing objectives, particularly given the difficulty of devoting sufficient resources and management attention to multiple priorities. FHFA directives that we and Fannie Mae adopt uniform approaches in many areas could have an adverse impact on our business or on our competitive position with respect to Fannie Mae. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor. On multiple occasions, FHFA has directed us and Fannie Mae to confer and suggest to FHFA possible uniform approaches to particular business and accounting issues and problems. It is likely that we will receive additional directives in the future. In most such cases, FHFA subsequently directed us and Fannie Mae to adopt a specific uniform approach. For example, we and Fannie Mae: • have aligned many of our standards and approaches for addressing non-performing loans, including certain standards relating to our respective loan workout activities; • have aligned certain aspects of our respective relief refinance initiatives (including HARP); • have been directed to adopt a new framework for representation and warranty obligations; • were directed to implement certain across-the-board guarantee fee price increases in 2012 to make certain aspects of our pricing more uniform; and • are working together in a number of areas to develop mortgage market enhancements in support of a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, including (a) improving and standardizing certain mortgage data requirements; (b) aligning certain terms of the contracts we and Fannie Mae use with our respective single-family seller/servicers, as well as certain practices we follow in managing our remedies and our respective business relationships with these companies; and (c) designing and developing a new securitization platform. We cannot predict the impact on our business of these actions or any similar actions FHFA may require us and Fannie Mae to take in the future. It is possible that in some areas FHFA could require us and Fannie Mae to take a uniform approach that, because of differences in our respective businesses, could place Freddie Mac at a competitive disadvantage to Fannie Mae. We may be required to adopt approaches that are operationally difficult for us to implement. It also is possible that in some cases identifying, adopting and maintaining a uniform approach could entail higher costs than would a unilateral approach, and that when market conditions merit a change in a uniform approach, coordinating the change might entail additional cost and delay. If and when conservatorship ends, market acceptance of a uniform approach could make it difficult to depart from that approach even if doing so would be economically desirable. We are subject to significant limitations on our business under the Purchase Agreement and Senior Preferred Stock that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Purchase Agreement and terms of the senior preferred stock include significant restrictions on our ability to manage our business, including limitations on the amount of indebtedness we may incur, the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio, and the circumstances in which we may pay dividends, transfer certain assets, raise capital, and pay down the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock. Over the long-term, as a result of the net worth sweep dividend provisions of the senior preferred stock, we do not have the ability to retain any capital generated by our business operations and will not be able to build or retain any net worth surplus or return capital to stockholders other than Treasury. In addition, the Purchase Agreement provides that we may not enter into any new compensation arrangements or increase amounts or benefits payable under existing compensation arrangements of any executive officers without the consent of the Director of FHFA, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury. In deciding whether or not to consent to any request for approval it receives from us under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury has the right to withhold its consent for any reason and is not required by the agreement to consider any particular factors, including whether or not management believes that the transaction would benefit the company. The limitations under the Purchase Agreement and terms of the senior preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. 53 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Our regulator may, and in some cases must, place us into receivership, which would result in the liquidation of our assets and terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter; if we are liquidated, there may not be sufficient funds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock, or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. We could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for a number of reasons, including conditions that FHFA has already asserted existed at the time the then Director of FHFA placed us into conservatorship. These include: (a) a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to unsafe or unsound practices; (b) the existence of an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business; (c) an inability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business; (d) a weakening of our condition due to unsafe or unsound practices or conditions; (e) critical undercapitalization; (f) the likelihood of losses that will deplete substantially all of our capital; or (g) by consent. In addition, FHFA could be required to place us in receivership if Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth. For more information, see “— If Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, FHFA could be required to place us into receivership.” A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. The appointment of FHFA as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our stockholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising as a result of their status as stockholders or creditors, other than the potential ability to be paid upon our liquidation. Unlike conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, there can be no assurance that there would be sufficient proceeds to pay the secured and unsecured claims of the company, repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. To the extent that we are placed into receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guarantee to the holders of our mortgage-related securities, such holders could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guarantee. Only after paying the secured and unsecured claims of the company, the administrative expenses of the receiver and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, which ranks senior to our common stock and all other series of preferred stock upon liquidation, would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. The aggregate liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock owned by Treasury is $72.3 billion as of December 31, 2012. The liquidation preference will increase further if we make additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. If we are placed into receivership or no longer operate as a going concern, we would no longer be able to assert that we will realize assets and satisfy liabilities in the normal course of business, and, therefore, our basis of accounting would change to liquidation-based accounting. Under the liquidation basis of accounting, assets are stated at their estimated net realizable value and liabilities are stated at their estimated settlement amounts, which could adversely affect our net worth. In addition, the amounts in AOCI would be reclassified to earnings, which could also adversely affect our net worth. If Treasury is unable to provide us with funding requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, FHFA could be required to place us into receivership. Under the Purchase Agreement, Treasury made a commitment to provide funding, under certain conditions, to eliminate deficits in our net worth. Under the GSE Act, FHFA must place us into receivership if FHFA determines in writing that our assets are less than our obligations for a period of 60 calendar days. FHFA has notified us that the measurement period for any mandatory receivership determination with respect to our assets and obligations would commence no earlier than the SEC public filing deadline for our quarterly or annual financial statements and would continue for 60 calendar days after that date. FHFA has also advised us that, if, during that 60-day period, we receive funds from Treasury in an amount at least equal to the deficiency amount under the Purchase Agreement, the Director of FHFA will not make a mandatory receivership determination. If funding has been requested under the Purchase Agreement to address a deficit in our net worth, and Treasury is unable to provide us with such funding within the 60-day period specified by FHFA, FHFA would be required to place us into receivership if our assets remain less than our obligations during that 60-day period. 54 Freddie Mac Table of Contents The conservatorship, uncertainty concerning our future, and restrictions on our ability to compensate employees have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of executives and other employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our ability to recruit and retain executives and other employees with the necessary skills to conduct our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the actions taken by Congress, Treasury, and the Conservator to date, or that may be taken by them or other government agencies in the future, the uncertainty regarding the duration of the conservatorship, the potential for future legislative or regulatory actions that could significantly affect our existence and our role in the secondary mortgage market, and the negative publicity concerning the GSEs. Accordingly, we may not be able to retain or replace executives or other employees with the requisite institutional knowledge and the technical, operational, risk management, and other key skills needed to conduct our business effectively. For example, we are subject to restrictions on the amount and type of compensation we may pay our executives under conservatorship. Also contributing to our concerns regarding executive retention risk is the aggregate level of target compensation paid to our executive officers, which for 2012 performance was below the 25th percentile of the competitive market. See “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” for more information. We cannot offer equity-based compensation, which is both common in our industry and provides a key incentive for employees to stay with the company. Our senior executives are prohibited by law from receiving bonuses during any period of conservatorship. Voluntary turnover moderated in 2012 compared to 2011. However, we may find it difficult to retain critical employees and attract people with the skills and experience we need for the reasons discussed above. In addition, the level of scrutiny from FHFA and its Office of Inspector General and other regulators has contributed to stress levels throughout the organization and placed additional burdens on staff. For more information about risks related to employee retention, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Operational Risks.” In 2011, the Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives approved a bill that would generally put our employees on the federal government’s pay scale. If this or similar legislation were to become law, many of our employees would experience a sudden and sharp decrease in compensation. The Acting Director of FHFA stated on November 15, 2011 that this “would certainly risk a substantial exodus of talent, the best leaving first in many instances. [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] likely would suffer a rapidly growing vacancy list and replacements with lesser skills and no experience in their specific jobs. A significant increase in safety and soundness risks and in costly operational failures would, in my opinion, be highly likely.” The Acting Director noted that “[s]hould the risks I fear materialize, FHFA might well be forced to limit [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] business activities. Some of the business [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] would be unable to undertake might simply not occur, with potential disruption in housing markets and the economy.” The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred stockholders. Prior to our entry into conservatorship, the market price for our common stock declined substantially. After our entry into conservatorship, the market price of our common stock continued to decline, and has been $1 or less per share since June 2010. As a result, the investments of our common and preferred stockholders lost substantial value, which they may never recover. There is significant uncertainty as to what changes may occur to our business structure during or following our conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. Therefore, it is likely that our shares could further diminish in value, and they are not likely to have any value in the longer-term. The Acting Director of FHFA has stated that “[Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae’s] equity holders retain an economic claim on the companies but that claim is subordinate to taxpayer claims. As a practical matter, taxpayers are not likely to be repaid in full, so [Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae] stock lower in priority is not likely to have any value.” The conservatorship and investment by Treasury has had, and will continue to have, other material adverse effects on our common and preferred stockholders, including the following: • No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our stockholders are suspended during the conservatorship and our common stockholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters. • Our future profits will effectively be distributed to Treasury. Under the Purchase Agreement, we are required to pay dividends to the extent that our Net Worth Amount exceeds a permitted capital reserve amount. The amount of this reserve decreases over time. Accordingly, over the long-term, we will not be able to build or retain any net worth surplus, and our future profits will effectively be distributed to Treasury. Therefore, the holders of our common stock and non-senior preferred stock will not receive benefits that would otherwise flow from any such future profits. 55 Freddie Mac Table of Contents • Priority of Senior Preferred Stock. The senior preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock and all other series of preferred stock as to both dividends and distributions upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the company. • Dividends have been eliminated. The Conservator has eliminated dividends on Freddie Mac common and preferred stock (other than dividends on the senior preferred stock) during the conservatorship. In addition, under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred stockholders (other than on the senior preferred stock) without the consent of Treasury, regardless of whether or not we are in conservatorship. • Warrant may substantially dilute investment of current stockholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common stockholders will be substantially diluted. It is possible that stockholders, other than Treasury, will not own more than 20.1% of our total common stock for the duration of our existence. Under our charter, bylaws and applicable law, 20.1% is insufficient to control the outcome of any vote that is presented to the common stockholders. Accordingly, existing common stockholders have no assurance that, as a group, they will be able to control the election of our directors or the outcome of any other vote after the time, if any, that the conservatorship ends. Competitive and Market Risks Our investment activity is significantly limited under the Purchase Agreement and by FHFA, which will reduce our earnings from investment activities over time and result in greater reliance on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. We are subject to significant limitations on our investment activity, which have and will continue to adversely affect the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio. These limitations include: (a) a requirement to reduce the size of our mortgage-related investments portfolio; and (b) significant constraints on our ability to purchase or sell mortgage assets. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, our mortgage-related investments portfolio is subject to a cap that decreases each year until the portfolio reaches $250 billion. As a result of the August 2012 amendment to the Purchase Agreement, the annual rate at which the mortgage-related investments portfolio limit declines increased from 10% to 15%. As a result, the UPB of our mortgage-related investments portfolio could not exceed $650 billion as of December 31, 2012 and may not exceed $553 billion as of December 31, 2013. FHFA has indicated that such portfolio reduction targets should be viewed as minimum reductions and has encouraged us to reduce the mortgage-related investments portfolio at a faster rate than required, while indicating that the pace of reducing the portfolio may be moderated by conditions in the housing and financial markets. Our mortgage-related investments portfolio has contracted considerably since we entered into conservatorship. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities to purchase or sell mortgage assets at attractive prices has been, and likely will continue to be, limited. In addition, we can provide no assurance that the cap on our mortgage-related investments portfolio will not, over time, force us to sell mortgage assets at unattractive prices. For more information on the various restrictions and limitations on our investment activity and our mortgage-related investments portfolio, see “BUSINESS — Conservatorship and Related Matters — Limits on Investment Activity and Our Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio.” These limitations will reduce the earnings capacity of our mortgage-related investments portfolio business and require us to place greater emphasis on our guarantee activities to generate revenue. However, under conservatorship, our ability to generate revenue through guarantee activities may be limited, as we may be required to adopt business practices that provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other non-financial objectives, but that may negatively impact our future financial results from guarantee activities. In addition, the overall volume of our guarantee business will likely decline over time, as one of FHFA’s goals for conservatorship, as set forth in its strategic plan, is to contract our presence in the mortgage market and shrink our operations. The combination of the restrictions on our business activities under the Purchase Agreement and FHFA regulation, combined with our potential inability to generate sufficient revenue through our guarantee activities to offset the effects of those restrictions, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that current or future profitability levels on our new single-family business would be sufficient to attract new private sector capital in the future, should the company be in a position to seek such capital. We generally must obtain FHFA’s approval to implement across-the-board price increases in our guarantee business, and although FHFA has recently directed us to increase our prices, there can be no assurance FHFA will approve any such increase requests in the future. It is also possible that we could be required to increase our guarantee fees, but not receive the benefit from such an increase. For example, effective April 1, 2012, at the direction of FHFA, we increased the 56 Freddie Mac Table of Contents guarantee fee on single-family residential mortgages sold to us by 10 basis points. However, under the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, the proceeds from this legislated increase are being remitted to Treasury to fund the payroll tax cut that occurred in 2012. Therefore, our business and financial condition will not benefit from this increase in guarantee fees. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Our Business Segments — Single-Family Guarantee Segment — Overview of the Mortgage Securitization Process.” We are subject to mortgage credit risks, including mortgage credit risk relating to off-balance sheet arrangements; increased credit costs related to these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and/or results of operations. Mortgage credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to make timely payments on a mortgage we own or guarantee, exposing us to the risk of credit losses and credit-related expenses. We are primarily exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to the single-family and multifamily loans that we own or guarantee and hold on our consolidated balance sheets. We are also exposed to mortgage credit risk with respect to securities and guarantee arrangements that are not reflected as assets on our consolidated balance sheets. These relate primarily to: (a) Freddie Mac mortgage-related securities backed by multifamily loans; (b) certain Other Guarantee Transactions; and (c) other guarantee commitments, including long-term standby commitments and liquidity guarantees. Single-family mortgage credit risk is primarily influenced by the credit profile of the borrower (e.g., credit score, credit history, and monthly income relative to debt payments), documentation level, the number of borrowers, the features of the mortgage itself, the purpose of the mortgage, occupancy type, the type of property securing the mortgage, the LTV ratio of the loan, and local and regional economic conditions, including home prices and unemployment rates. Our credit losses will remain elevated for the near term due to the substantial number of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio on which borrowers owe more than their home is currently worth, as well as the substantial inventory of seriously delinquent loans. While mortgage interest rates remained low in 2012, there can be no assurance that continued low mortgage interest rates or efforts to modify and refinance mortgages pursuant to the MHA Program (including pursuant to the revisions to HARP announced in October 2011) and to modify mortgages under our other loss mitigation initiatives will reduce our overall mortgage credit risk. We also continue to have significant amounts of mortgage loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio with certain characteristics, such as Alt-A, interest-only, option ARMs, loans with original LTV ratios greater than 90%, and loans where borrowers had FICO scores less than 620 at the time of origination, that expose us to greater credit risk than do other types of mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2012, loans with one or more of the above characteristics comprised approximately 22% of our single-family credit guarantee portfolio. See “Table 46 — Certain Higher-Risk Categories in the Single-Family Credit Guarantee Portfolio” for more information. Our multifamily mortgage credit risk is affected by the mortgaged property’s ability to generate rental income from which debt service can be paid. That ability in turn is affected by rental market conditions (e.g., rental and vacancy rates), the physical condition of the property, the quality of the property’s management, and the level of operating costs. Our primary multifamily business strategy is to purchase loans for aggregation and then securitization through K Certificates, whereby we mitigate our credit risk exposure by structuring our securities to shift a significant portion of expected losses to third party investors through the sale of subordinate tranches. The subordinate tranches that we do not guarantee provide credit loss protection to the senior classes that we do guarantee. While the subordination is set at an amount we believe is adequate to cover expected credit losses, the amount of such subordination may not be sufficient to prevent us from incurring credit losses with respect to any senior classes that we guarantee. A risk we continue to monitor is that multifamily borrowers will default if they are unable to refinance their loans at an affordable rate. This risk is particularly important with respect to multifamily loans because such loans generally have a balloon payment and typically have a shorter contractual term than single-family mortgages. Borrowers may be less able to refinance their obligations during periods of rising interest rates, reduced demand for rental housing, or weak economic conditions, which could lead to default if the borrower is unable to find affordable refinancing. However, of the $127.4 billion in UPB of loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2012, only approximately 3% and 5% will reach their maturity during 2013 and 2014, respectively. 57 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are exposed to significant credit risk related to the subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans that back the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities include securities that are backed by subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans. As of December 31, 2012, we held $69.0 billion of such securities, which represented approximately 12% of our total mortgage-related investments portfolio. Since 2007, mortgage loan delinquencies and credit losses in the U.S. mortgage market have substantially increased, particularly in the subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM sectors of the residential mortgage market. In addition, home prices have experienced significant cumulative declines, after extended periods during which home prices appreciated. As a result, the fair value of these investments has declined significantly since 2007, and we have recorded substantial other-than-temporary impairments, which has adversely impacted our net worth. In addition, most of these investments do not trade in a liquid secondary market and the size of our holdings relative to normal market activity is such that, if we were to attempt to sell a significant quantity of these securities, the pricing in such markets could be significantly disrupted and the price we ultimately realize may be materially lower than the value at which we carry these investments on our consolidated balance sheets. We could experience additional GAAP losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in these non-agency mortgage-related securities if, among other things: (a) interest rates change; (b) delinquency and loss rates on subprime, Alt-A, and option ARM loans further increase; (c) there is a future decline in actual or forecasted home prices; or (d) there is a deterioration in servicing performance on the underlying loans. In addition, the fair value of these investments may decline in the future due to additional ratings downgrades or market events, including overall uncertainty related to recovery efforts, capital requirements or regulatory changes. Any such declines would adversely affect our net worth. Any credit enhancements covering these securities, including subordination and other structural enhancements, may not prevent us from incurring losses. During 2012, we continued to experience the erosion of structural credit enhancements on many securities backed by subprime, option ARM, and Alt-A loans due to poor performance of the underlying mortgages. The financial condition of bond insurers also continued to deteriorate in 2012. See “MD&A — CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS — Investments in Securities” for information about the credit ratings for these securities and the extent to which these securities have been downgraded. Certain strategies to mitigate our losses as an investor in non-agency mortgage-related securities may adversely affect our relationships with some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties. In 2011, FHFA, as Conservator for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, filed lawsuits against 18 corporate families of financial institutions and related defendants seeking to recover losses and damages sustained by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae as a result of their investments in certain residential non-agency mortgage-related securities issued or sold by, or backed by mortgages originated by, these financial institutions or control persons thereof. These institutions include some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties, including counterparties to debt funding and derivatives transactions. One of these lawsuits was settled recently. At the direction of our Conservator, we are also working to enforce contractual rights of certain trusts with respect to the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold, and are engaged in other efforts to mitigate losses on our investments in these securities, in some cases in conjunction with other investors. We have directed the trustees of certain of these non-agency mortgage-related securities to initiate litigation on behalf of certificate holders against several financial institutions (many of whom are Freddie Mac counterparties) for breach of contract claims. These and other loss mitigation efforts may lead to further disputes with some of our largest seller/servicers and counterparties that may result in further litigation. This could adversely affect our relationship with any such company and could, for example, result in the loss of some or all of our business with a large seller/servicer. For more information, see “Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if mortgage seller/servicers fail to repurchase loans sold to us in breach of representations and warranties or fail to honor any related indemnification or recourse obligations” and “NOTE 15: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS.” The effectiveness of these various loss mitigation efforts is highly uncertain, in part because our rights as an investor are limited, and any potential recoveries may take significant time to realize. 58 Freddie Mac Table of Contents The credit losses we experience in future periods could be larger, perhaps substantially larger in the event of another recession or another sharp drop in home prices, than our current loan loss reserves. Our loan loss reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, do not reflect the total of all future credit losses we will ultimately incur with respect to our single-family and multifamily mortgage loans, including those underlying our financial guarantees. Rather, pursuant to GAAP, our reserves only reflect probable losses we believe we have already incurred as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, it is likely that the credit losses we ultimately incur on the loans we currently own or guarantee will exceed the amounts we have already reserved for such loans. If we were to experience another recession or another sharp drop in home prices, it is possible that the credit losses we ultimately incur related to such an event could be larger, perhaps substantially larger, than our current loan loss reserves. Additional credit losses we incur in future periods will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. Future declines in U.S. home prices or other adverse changes in the U.S. housing market could negatively impact our business and increase our losses. Our financial results and business volumes can be significantly, negatively affected by declines in home prices and other adverse changes in the housing market. Although the single-family housing market exhibited certain signs of improvement in 2012, our credit losses remained high, in part because home prices have experienced significant cumulative declines in many geographic areas since 2006. While we expect modest home price increases in 2013, there can be no assurance that this will occur. In addition, it is likely that we will continue to experience a high rate of serious delinquencies or defaults and an elevated level of credit losses. We prepare internal forecasts of future home prices, which we use for certain business activities, including: (a) hedging prepayment risk; (b) setting fees for new guarantee business; and (c) portfolio activities. It is possible that a sustained recovery in home prices would not begin until much later than we anticipate, or that home prices could decline in the future, which could adversely affect our performance of these business activities. For example, this could cause the return we earn on new single-family guarantee business to be less than expected. This could also result in higher losses due to other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities (which would be recognized in earnings) or fair value declines on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities (which would be recognized in AOCI). Government programs designed to strengthen the U.S. housing market, such as the MHA Program, may fail to achieve expected results, and new programs could be instituted that cause our credit losses to increase. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk.” Our business volumes are closely tied to the rate of growth in total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. Total residential mortgage debt declined approximately 2.3% in the first nine months of 2012 (the most recent data available) compared to a decline of approximately 2.4% in 2011. If total outstanding U.S. residential mortgage debt were to continue to decline, there would likely be fewer mortgage loans available for us to purchase, and we could face more competition to purchase a smaller number of loans. While multifamily market fundamentals (i.e., vacancy rates and effective rents) improved on a national level during 2012, this trend may not continue. The multifamily market is affected by regional and local economic factors, such as employment rates, construction cycles, and the relative affordability of single-family home prices, all of which influence supply and demand for multifamily properties and pricing for apartment rentals. Any softening of the broader economy could have negative impacts on multifamily markets, which could cause delinquencies and credit losses relating to our multifamily activities to increase beyond our current expectations. Our refinance volumes could decline if interest rates rise, which could cause our overall new mortgage-related security issuance volumes to decline. We continued to experience a high percentage of refinance mortgages in our purchase volume during 2012 due to continued low interest rates and the impact of our relief refinance initiatives. However, originations of refinance mortgages will likely decline if HARP expires as currently scheduled in December 2013. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. In addition, many eligible borrowers have already refinanced at least once during this period of low interest rates, and therefore may be unlikely to do so again in the near future. Overall originations of refinance mortgages, and our purchases of them, will likely decrease if interest rates rise. It is possible that our overall mortgage-related security issuance volumes could decline if our volumes of purchase money mortgages do not increase to offset any such decrease in refinance mortgages. This could adversely affect the amount of revenue we receive from our guarantee activities. 59 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We could incur significant credit losses and credit-related expenses in the event of a major natural disaster or other catastrophic event in geographic areas in which portions of our total mortgage portfolio and REO holdings are concentrated. We own or guarantee mortgage loans and own REO properties throughout the United States. The occurrence of a major natural or environmental disaster (such as an earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, flood, or widespread damage caused to the environment by commercial entities), terrorist attack, pandemic, or similar catastrophic event in a regional geographic area of the United States could negatively impact our credit losses and credit-related expenses in the affected area. The occurrence of a catastrophic event could negatively impact a geographic area in a number of different ways, depending on the nature of the event. A catastrophic event that either damaged or destroyed residential real estate underlying mortgage loans we own or guarantee or negatively impacted the ability of homeowners to continue to make principal and interest payments on mortgage loans we own or guarantee could increase our serious delinquency rates and average loan loss severity in the affected region or regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Such an event could also damage or destroy REO properties we own. While we attempt to maintain a geographically diverse portfolio, there can be no assurance that a catastrophic event, depending on its magnitude, scope and nature, will not generate significant credit losses and credit-related expenses. We may not have insurance coverage for some of these catastrophic events. In some cases, we may be prohibited by state law from requiring such insurance as a condition to our purchasing or guaranteeing loans. In addition, any efforts we make to assist borrowers in affected areas could increase our expenses. We depend on our institutional counterparties to provide services that are critical to our business, and our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more of our institutional counterparties do not meet their obligations to us. We face the risk that one or more of the institutional counterparties that has entered into a business contract or arrangement with us may fail to meet its obligations to us. We face similar risks with respect to contracts or arrangements we benefit from indirectly or that we enter into on behalf of our securitization trusts. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with: • mortgage seller/servicers; • mortgage insurers; • issuers, guarantors or third-party providers of other credit enhancements (including bond insurers); • counterparties to short-term lending and other investment-related agreements and cash equivalent transactions, including such agreements and transactions we manage for our PC trusts; • derivative counterparties; • hazard and title insurers; • mortgage investors; and • document custodians and funds custodians. Many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. In some cases, our business with institutional counterparties is concentrated. The concentration of our exposure to our counterparties has increased in recent years due to industry consolidation and counterparty failures or downgrades, and we continue to face challenges in reducing our risk concentrations with counterparties. Efforts we take to reduce exposure to financially weakened counterparties could further increase our exposure to other individual counterparties. A significant failure by a major institutional counterparty could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways, including by adversely affecting our ability to conduct operations efficiently and at cost-effective rates, and have a material adverse effect on our investments in mortgage loans, investments in securities, our derivative portfolio or our credit guarantee activities. Some of our counterparties may become subject to serious liquidity problems affecting their businesses, either temporarily or permanently, which may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In recent years, challenging market conditions have, at times, adversely affected the liquidity and financial condition of our counterparties. These trends may continue. In particular, we believe all of our derivative portfolio and cash and other investments portfolio counterparties are exposed to fiscally troubled European countries. It is possible that continued adverse developments in the 60 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Eurozone could significantly impact such counterparties. In turn, this could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. In the past few years, some of our largest seller/servicers have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints, and certain large lenders have failed. These challenging market conditions could also increase the likelihood that we will have disputes with our counterparties concerning their obligations to us, especially with respect to counterparties that have experienced financial strain and/or have large exposures to us. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk” and “NOTE 15: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS” for additional information regarding our credit risks to certain categories of counterparties and how we seek to manage them. The servicing of mortgage loans backing our single-family non-agency mortgage-related securities investments is concentrated in a small number of institutions. We could experience losses on these investments from servicing performance deterioration should one of these institutions come under financial distress. Furthermore, Freddie Mac’s rights as a non-agency mortgage-related securities investor to transfer servicing are limited. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if mortgage seller/servicers fail to repurchase loans sold to us in breach of representations and warranties or fail to honor any related indemnification or recourse obligations. We require seller/servicers to make certain representations and warranties regarding the loans they sell to us. If loans are sold to us in breach of those representations and warranties, we have the contractual right to require the seller/servicer to repurchase those loans from us. In lieu of repurchase, we may agree to allow a seller/servicer to indemnify us against losses on such mortgages or otherwise compensate us for the risk of continuing to hold the mortgages. Sometimes a seller/servicer sells us mortgages with recourse, meaning that the seller/servicer agrees to repurchase any mortgage that is delinquent for more than a specified period (usually 120 days), regardless of whether there has been a breach of representations and warranties. If a seller/servicer does not satisfy its repurchase or indemnification obligations with respect to a loan, we will be subject to the full range of credit risks posed by the loan if the loan fails to perform, including the risk that a mortgage insurer may deny or rescind coverage on the loan (if the loan is insured) and the risk that we will incur credit losses on the loan through the workout or foreclosure process. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the UPB of loans subject to repurchase requests based on breaches of representations and warranties issued to our single-family seller/servicers was approximately $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $1.2 billion of such loans were subject to repurchase requests issued due to mortgage insurance rescission or mortgage insurance claim denial. Our contracts require that a seller/servicer repurchase a mortgage within 30 days after we issue a repurchase request, unless the seller/servicer avails itself of an appeal process provided for in our contracts, in which case the deadline for repurchase is extended until we decide the appeal. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 41% and 39%, respectively, of these repurchase requests were outstanding more than four months since issuance of our repurchase request (these figures include repurchase requests for which appeals were pending). The amount we collect on these requests and others we may make in the future could be significantly less than the UPB of the loans subject to the repurchase requests primarily because we expect many of these requests will likely be satisfied by reimbursement of our realized credit losses by seller/servicers, instead of repurchase of loans at their UPB, or may be rescinded in the course of the contractual appeals process. Based on our historical loss experience and the fact that many of these loans are covered by credit enhancement, we expect the actual credit losses experienced by us should we fail to collect on these repurchase requests will also be less than the UPB of the loans. We may also enter into agreements with seller/servicers to resolve claims for repurchases. The amounts we receive under any such agreements may be less than the losses we ultimately incur. Our credit losses may increase to the extent our seller/servicers do not fully perform their repurchase obligations. Enforcing repurchase obligations of seller/servicers could also negatively impact our relationships with such customers and could result in the loss of some or all of our business with such customers, which could negatively impact our ability to retain market share. This could also lead to further disputes with such customers. It may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming to legally enforce a seller/servicer’s repurchase obligations, in the event a seller/servicer continues to fail to perform such obligations. We are also acquiring an increasing portion of single-family business volume directly from smaller 61 Freddie Mac Table of Contents financial institutions. We may face increased risk that these institutions would not be able to satisfy their repurchase obligations, as these institutions may not have the same financial strength as our larger seller/servicers. At the direction of FHFA, we have launched a new representation and warranty framework for conventional loans purchased by us on or after January 1, 2013. We may face greater exposure to credit and other losses under this new framework since it relieves lenders of certain repurchase obligations in specific cases, such as for loans that perform for 36 consecutive months after we purchase them, with certain exclusions. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Seller/Servicers.” In 2012 and late 2011, we changed our relief refinance program (which includes HARP) such that we are relieving lenders of certain representations and warranties on the original mortgage being refinanced. As a result, we may face greater exposure to credit and other losses on these loans. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program — Relief Refinance Mortgage Initiative and the Home Affordable Refinance Program.” We also have exposure to seller/servicers with respect to mortgage insurance. When a mortgage insurer rescinds coverage or denies or curtails a claim, we may require the seller/servicer to repurchase the mortgage or to indemnify us for additional loss. The volume of rescissions, claim denials, and curtailments by mortgage insurers remains high. Seller/servicers may fail to perform their obligations to service loans in our single-family and multifamily mortgage portfolios or their servicing performance could decline. Our seller/servicers have a significant role in servicing loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio, which includes an active role in our loss mitigation efforts. Therefore, a decline in their performance could impact our credit performance (including through missed opportunities for mortgage modifications), which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and have a significant impact on our ability to mitigate credit losses. The risk of such a decline in performance remains high. The high levels of seriously delinquent loan volume, the weak conditions of the mortgage market, and the number and variety of additions and changes to our loan modification and other loss mitigation initiatives have placed a strain on the loss mitigation resources of many of our seller/servicers. This has also increased the operational complexity of the servicing function, as well as the risk that errors will occur. A number of seller/servicers have had to address issues relating to the improper preparation and execution of certain documents used in foreclosure proceedings, which has further strained their resources. There have also been a number of legislative and regulatory developments that have increased, or could increase, the complexity of the servicing function. It is also possible that we could be directed to introduce additional changes to the servicing function that increase its complexity, such as new or revised loan modification or loss mitigation initiatives or new compensation arrangements. Our expected ability to partially mitigate losses through loan modifications and other alternatives to foreclosure is a factor we consider in determining our allowance for loan losses. Therefore, the inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our loss mitigation plans could cause our losses to be significantly higher than those currently estimated. Weak economic conditions continue to affect the liquidity and financial condition of many of our seller/servicers, including some of our largest seller/servicers. Any efforts we take to attempt to improve our servicers’ performance could adversely affect our relationships with such servicers, many of which also sell loans to us. In recent periods, a number of our servicers who specialize in servicing troubled loans have experienced rapid growth in their servicing portfolios, including an increase in troubled loans they service for Freddie Mac. Although the ability of these servicers to service troubled loans may benefit us by reducing our credit losses, the rapid expansion of their servicing portfolios could expose us to increased risks in the event that it results in operational strains that adversely affect their servicing performance or weakens their financial strength. If a servicer does not fulfill its servicing obligations (including its repurchase or other responsibilities), we may seek partial or full recovery of the amounts that such servicer owes us, such as by attempting to sell the applicable mortgage servicing rights to a different servicer and applying the proceeds to such owed amounts, or by contracting the servicing responsibilities to a different servicer and retaining the net servicing fee. The weakness in the housing market has negatively affected the market for mortgage servicing rights, which increases the risk that we might not receive a sufficient price for such rights or that we may be unable to find buyers who: (a) have sufficient capacity to service the affected mortgages in compliance with our servicing standards; (b) are willing to assume the representations and warranties of the former servicer regarding the affected mortgages (which we typically require); and (c) have sufficient capacity to service all of the affected mortgages. Increased industry consolidation, bankruptcies of mortgage bankers or bank failures may also make it more 62 Freddie Mac Table of Contents difficult for us to sell such rights, because there may not be sufficient capacity in the market, particularly in the event of multiple failures. This option may be difficult to accomplish with respect to our larger seller/servicers due to operational and capacity challenges of transferring a large servicing portfolio. Our seller/servicers also have a significant role in servicing loans in our multifamily mortgage portfolio. We are exposed to the risk that multifamily seller/servicers could come under financial pressure, which could potentially cause degradation in the quality of the servicing they provide us including their monitoring of each property’s financial performance and physical condition. This could also, in certain cases, reduce the likelihood that we could recover losses through lender repurchases, recourse agreements, or other credit enhancements, where applicable. See “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Single-family Mortgage Seller/Servicers” and “— Multifamily Mortgage Seller/Servicers” for additional information on our institutional credit risk related to our mortgage seller/servicers. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of our counterparties to derivatives, funding, and other transactions. We use derivatives for several purposes, including to adjust or rebalance our funding mix in response to changes in the interest-rate characteristics of our mortgage-related assets and to hedge forecasted issuances of debt. The relative concentration of our derivative exposure among our primary derivative counterparties remains high as compared to historical levels. This concentration increased in the last several years due to industry consolidation and the failure or downgrade of certain counterparties, and could further increase. Five of our derivative counterparties each accounted for greater than 10% of our net uncollateralized exposure, excluding commitments, at December 31, 2012. For a further discussion of our exposure to derivative counterparties, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Derivative Counterparties” and “NOTE 15: CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS.” Some of our derivative and other capital markets counterparties have experienced various degrees of financial distress in the past few years, including liquidity constraints, and credit downgrades. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial distress of these derivative and other capital markets counterparties to the extent that they fail to meet their obligations to us. For example, our OTC derivative counterparties are required to post collateral to us in certain circumstances to cover our net exposure to them on derivative contracts. We may incur losses if the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices that are sufficient to cover the amount of such exposure. We also face the risk that, if a counterparty becomes insolvent, we may not be able to recover any collateral we posted to the counterparty. Our ability to engage in routine derivatives, funding, and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide disruptions in which it may be difficult for us to find acceptable counterparties for such transactions. We also use derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. Thus, if our access to the derivative markets were disrupted, it may become more difficult or expensive to fund our business activities and achieve the funding mix we desire, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our credit losses and other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings could increase if more of our mortgage or bond insurers become insolvent or fail to perform their obligations to us. A number of our mortgage insurers (that insure single-family mortgages we purchase or guarantee) and bond insurers (that insure certain of the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold) are insolvent or are not fully performing their obligations to us. We are exposed to the risk that additional mortgage or bond insurance counterparties could become insolvent or fail to fully perform their obligations to us. The weakened financial condition and liquidity position of many of these counterparties increases the risk that additional entities will fail to fully reimburse us for claims under insurance policies. This risk could increase if home prices decline in the future or if the economy worsens. As a guarantor, we remain responsible for the payment of principal and interest if a mortgage insurer fails to meet its obligations to reimburse us for claims. Thus, if any of our mortgage insurers that provide credit enhancement fails to fulfill its obligation, we could experience increased credit losses. In addition, if a regulator determined that a mortgage insurer lacked sufficient capital to pay all claims when due, the regulator could take action that might impact the timing and amount 63 Freddie Mac Table of Contents of claim payments made to us. We independently assess the financial condition, including the claims-paying resources, of each of our mortgage insurers. Based on our analysis of the financial condition of a mortgage insurer and pursuant to our eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers, we could take action against a mortgage insurer intended to protect our interests that may impact the timing and amount of claims payments received from that insurer. We believe that certain of our mortgage insurers are not sufficiently capitalized to withstand the stress of the current weak economic environment. We expect to receive substantially less than full payment of our claims from Triad Guaranty Insurance Corporation, Republic Mortgage Insurance Company and PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. We also believe that certain other of our mortgage insurance counterparties lack sufficient ability to meet all their expected lifetime claims paying obligations to us as such claims emerge. In the future, we believe our mortgage insurance exposure will likely be concentrated among a smaller number of counterparties. In the event one or more of our bond insurers were to become insolvent, it is likely that we would not collect our claims from the affected insurer. This would impact our ability to recover certain unrealized losses on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities, and could contribute to net impairment of available-for-sale securities recognized in earnings. We evaluate the expected recovery from primary bond insurance policies as part of our impairment analysis for our investments in securities. If a bond insurer’s performance with respect to its obligations on our investments in securities is worse than expected, this could contribute to additional net impairment of those securities. Some of our larger bond insurers are in runoff mode and are not writing new business. We expect to receive substantially less than full payment from Ambac Assurance Corporation and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, as these companies are insolvent. Financial Guaranty Insurance Company is currently not paying any of its claims. Ambac, which had not paid claims since March 2010, began paying a portion of its claims in cash in the fall of 2012. We believe that we will likely receive substantially less than full payment of our claims from some of our other bond insurers, because we believe they also lack sufficient ability to fully meet all of their expected lifetime claims-paying obligations to us as such claims emerge. For more information on developments concerning our mortgage insurers and bond insurers, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Institutional Credit Risk — Mortgage Insurers” and “— Bond Insurers.” If mortgage insurers were to tighten their standards or fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements, the volume of high LTV ratio mortgages available for us to purchase could be reduced, which could reduce our overall volume of new business. Mortgage insurance standards could constrain our future ability to purchase loans with LTV ratios over 80%. Our charter requires that single-family mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% at the time of purchase be covered by specified credit enhancements or participation interests. Our purchases of mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% (other than relief refinance mortgages) have generally been low in recent years, as compared to 2005 – 2008 levels, in part because mortgage insurers tightened their eligibility requirements with respect to the issuance of insurance on new mortgages with such higher LTV ratios. However, our acquisitions of non-HARP mortgages with LTV ratios greater than 90% increased during 2012 compared to 2011, in part because most mortgage insurance companies lowered their premiums in 2011 for certain higher-risk loans. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk — Other Categories of Single-Family Mortgage Loans — Higher-Risk Loans in the Single-Family Credit Guarantee Portfolio.” There can be no assurance that this will continue. If mortgage insurers restrict their eligibility requirements or increase premiums for loans with LTV ratios over 80%, or if we are no longer willing or able to obtain mortgage insurance from these counterparties under terms we find reasonable, and we are not able to avail ourselves of suitable alternative methods of obtaining credit enhancement for these loans, we may be restricted in our ability to purchase or securitize such loans. This could reduce our overall volume of new business. This could also negatively impact our ability to participate in a significant segment of the mortgage market (i.e., loans with LTV ratios over 80%) should we seek, or be directed, to do so. See “Table 40 — Characteristics of Purchases for the Single-Family Credit Guarantee Portfolio” for more information about our mortgage purchases. If a mortgage insurance company were to fall out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements and not obtain appropriate waivers, it could become subject to regulatory actions that restrict its ability to write new business in certain, or in some cases all, states. Over the past several years, three of our mortgage insurers (Triad Guaranty Insurance Corporation, Republic Mortgage Insurance Company and PMI Mortgage Insurance Co.) were each prohibited from writing new business by their primary state regulators and none of them writes new business in any state any longer. Given the difficulties in the 64 Freddie Mac Table of Contents mortgage insurance industry, we believe it is likely that other companies may be unable to meet regulatory capital requirements. A mortgage insurer may attempt a corporate restructuring designed to enable it to continue to write new business through a new entity in the event the insurer falls out of compliance with regulatory capital requirements. However, there can be no assurance that an insurer would be able to accomplish such a restructuring, as the restructured entity would be required to satisfy regulatory requirements as well as our own conditions. We monitor the claim paying ability of our mortgage insurers. As these restructuring plans are presented to us for review, we attempt to determine whether the insurers’ plans make available sufficient resources to meet their obligations to policyholders of the insurance entities involved in the restructuring. However, there can be no assurance that any such restructuring will enable payment in full of all claims in the future. See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES — Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guarantee Losses — Single-Family Loans” for more information. The loss of business volume from key mortgage originators could result in a decline in our market share and revenues. Our business depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans. We purchase a significant percentage of our single-family mortgages from several large mortgage originators. During 2012 and 2011, approximately 73% and 82%, respectively, of our single-family mortgage purchase volume was associated with our ten largest customers. During 2012, three mortgage lenders (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank N.A., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) each accounted for more than 10% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume and collectively accounted for approximately 49% of our single-family mortgage purchase volume. Similarly, we acquire a significant portion of our multifamily mortgage loans from several large lenders. We enter into mortgage purchase volume commitments with many of our single-family customers that provide for the customers to deliver to us a certain volume of mortgages during a specified period of time. Some commitments may also provide for the lender to deliver to us a minimum percentage of their total sales of conforming loans. There is a risk that we will not be able to enter into new commitments with our single-family customers that will maintain mortgage purchase volume following the expiration of our existing commitments with them. The loss of business from any one of our major lenders could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. Many of our seller/servicers also have tightened their lending criteria in recent years, which has reduced their loan volume, thus reducing the volume of loans available for us to purchase. Weak business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including conditions in the international markets for our mortgage-related and debt securities and for the various types of securities we hold as investments. These conditions include employment rates, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, the strength of the U.S. financial markets and national economy and the local economies in which we conduct business, the regulatory environment, and the economies of other countries that purchase our mortgage-related and debt securities. Concerns about fiscal challenges in several Eurozone economies continued during 2012, creating significant uncertainty in the financial markets and potential increased risk exposure for our counterparties and for us. There is also significant uncertainty regarding fiscal challenges facing the U.S. and the strength of the U.S. economic recovery. Weak economic conditions in the U.S. could result in high serious delinquencies and credit losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The mortgage credit markets continue to be impacted by relatively low levels of corporate credit and liquidity within the mortgage industry, which has at times caused disruptions to normal operations of major mortgage servicers and originators, including some of our largest customers. This has, at times, also contributed to significant volatility, wide credit spreads and a lack of price transparency, and the potential for further consolidation within the financial services industry. Competition from banking and non-banking companies may harm our business. Competition in the secondary mortgage market combined with a decline in the amount of residential mortgage debt outstanding may make it more difficult for us to purchase mortgages. Furthermore, competitive pricing pressures may make our products less attractive in the market and negatively impact our financial results. Increased competition from Fannie Mae, Ginnie Mae, FHA/VA, and new entrants may alter our product mix, lower volumes, and reduce revenues on new business. FHFA is also Conservator of Fannie Mae, our primary competitor, and FHFA’s actions as Conservator of both 65 Freddie Mac Table of Contents companies could affect competition between us and Fannie Mae. It is possible that FHFA could require us and Fannie Mae to take a uniform approach that, because of differences in our respective businesses, could place Freddie Mac at a competitive disadvantage to Fannie Mae. FHFA may also prevent us from taking actions that could provide us with a competitive advantage. Efforts we may make or may be directed to make to increase the profitability of new single-family guarantee business, such as by tightening credit standards or raising guarantee fees, could cause our market share to decrease and the volume of our single-family guarantee business to decline. Historically, we also competed with other financial institutions that retain or securitize mortgages, such as commercial and investment banks, dealers, thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Many of these institutions have ceased or substantially reduced their activities in the secondary market for single-family mortgages since 2008. However, one of FHFA’s goals for conservatorship, as set forth in its strategic plan, is to contract our presence in the mortgage market and shrink our operations, and FHFA is taking a number of actions designed to encourage these other financial institutions to return to the mortgage market. We could be prevented from competing efficiently and effectively by competitors who use their patent portfolios to prevent us from using necessary business processes and products, or to require us to pay significant royalties to use those processes and products. Beginning in 2010, as multifamily market fundamentals were starting to improve, more market participants began to re-enter the multifamily market, and as a result we have faced increased competition. Although we continued to be a significant participant in the multifamily market in 2012, other participants, including life insurers, banks, and CMBS issuers, also were active in acquiring multifamily mortgages and we expect continued competition in the multifamily market. Our investment activities may be adversely affected by limited availability of financing and increased funding costs. The amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial institutions and the capital markets, directly impacts our interest expense and results of operations. A number of factors could make such financing more difficult to obtain, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, both domestically and internationally, including: • changes in our government support; • reduced demand for our debt securities; • competition for debt funding from other debt issuers; and • downgrades in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of the U.S. government. Our ability to obtain funding in the public debt markets or by pledging mortgage-related securities as collateral to other financial institutions could cease or change rapidly, and the cost of available funding could increase significantly, due to changes in market confidence and other factors. For example, in the fall of 2008, we experienced significant deterioration in our access to the unsecured medium- and long-term debt markets, and were forced to rely on short-term debt to fund our purchases of mortgage assets and refinance maturing debt and to rely on derivatives to synthetically create the substantive economic equivalent of various debt funding structures. We follow certain liquidity management practices and procedures. However, in the event we were unable to obtain funding from the public debt markets, there can be no assurance that such practices and procedures would provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing cash obligations for an extended period. Since 2008, the ratings on the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold backed by Alt-A, subprime, and option ARM loans have decreased, limiting their availability as a significant source of liquidity for us through sales or use as collateral in secured lending transactions. The composition of our mortgage-related investments portfolio has changed significantly since we entered into conservatorship, as the proportion of single-family whole loans has significantly increased and the proportion of agency mortgage-related securities has significantly declined. This changing composition presents heightened liquidity risk, which influences management’s decisions regarding funding and hedging. Changes in Government Support Changes or perceived changes in the government’s support of us could have a severe negative effect on our access to the debt markets and our debt funding costs. Beginning January 1, 2013, the amount of available funding remaining under the Purchase Agreement is $140.5 billion. This amount will be reduced by any future draws. The provisions of the Purchase Agreement whereby Treasury’s funding commitment would increase as necessary to accommodate any cumulative reduction 66 Freddie Mac Table of Contents in our net worth during 2010, 2011, and 2012 no longer apply. While we believe that the support provided by Treasury pursuant to the Purchase Agreement currently enables us to maintain our access to the debt markets and to have adequate liquidity to conduct our normal business activities, the costs of our debt funding could vary due to the uncertainty about the future of the GSEs. The cost of our debt funding could increase if debt investors believe that the risk that we could be placed into receivership is increasing. Our access to the debt markets and the cost of funding could also be adversely affected if we were to make significant draws in the future, and thereby significantly reduce the amount of available funding remaining under the Purchase Agreement. In addition, under the Purchase Agreement, without the prior consent of Treasury, we may not increase our total indebtedness above a specified limit or become liable for any subordinated indebtedness. For more information, see “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Actions of Treasury and FHFA.” We do not currently have a liquidity backstop available to us (other than draws from Treasury under the Purchase Agreement and Treasury’s ability to purchase up to $2.25 billion of our obligations under its permanent statutory authority) if we are unable to obtain funding from issuances of debt or other conventional sources. At present, we are not able to predict the likelihood that a liquidity backstop will be needed, or to identify the alternative sources of liquidity that might be available to us if needed, other than from Treasury as referenced above. Demand for Debt Funding The willingness of investors to purchase or hold our debt securities, and any changes to such willingness, may materially affect our liquidity, business and results of operations. The willingness of domestic and foreign investors to purchase and hold our debt securities can be influenced by many factors, including changes in the world economy, changes in foreign-currency exchange rates, regulatory and political factors, as well as the availability of and preferences for other investments. If investors were to divest their holdings or reduce their purchases of our debt securities, our funding costs could increase and our business activities could be curtailed. Competition for Debt Funding We compete for debt funding with Fannie Mae, the FHLBs, and other institutions. Competition for debt funding from these entities can vary with changes in economic, financial market, and regulatory environments. Increased competition for debt funding may result in a higher cost to finance our business, which could negatively affect our financial results. An inability to issue debt securities at attractive rates in amounts sufficient to fund our business activities and meet our obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. See “MD&A — LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Liquidity — Other Debt Securities” for a description of our debt issuance programs. Our funding costs may also be affected by changes in the amount of, and demand for, debt issued by Treasury. Line of Credit We maintain a secured intraday line of credit to provide additional intraday liquidity to fund our activities through the Fedwire system. This line of credit requires us to post collateral to a third party. In certain circumstances, this secured counterparty may be able to repledge the collateral underlying our financing without our consent. In addition, because the secured intraday line of credit is uncommitted, we may not be able to continue to draw on it if and when needed. Any downgrade in the credit ratings of the U.S. government would likely be followed by a downgrade in our credit ratings. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our debt could adversely affect our liquidity and other aspects of our business. Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations play an important role in determining, by means of the ratings they assign to issuers and their debt, the availability and cost of funding. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. We currently receive ratings from three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch) for our unsecured borrowings. These ratings are primarily based on the support we receive from Treasury, and therefore are affected by changes in the credit ratings of the U.S. government. Any downgrade in the credit ratings of the U.S. government would be expected to be followed or accompanied by a downgrade in our credit ratings. In August 2011, S&P lowered our senior long-term debt credit rating to “AA+” from “AAA” and assigned a negative outlook to the rating. This action followed S&P’s downgrade of the credit rating of the U.S. government. In addition, Moody’s confirmed our senior long-term debt and subordinated debt ratings and assigned a negative outlook to the ratings in August 2011. This action accompanied Moody’s confirmation of the U.S. government’s AAA long-term credit rating and assignment of a negative outlook to the rating. In November 2011, Fitch affirmed our long-term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) 67 Freddie Mac Table of Contents at “AAA” and revised the outlook to negative from stable. This action followed Fitch’s affirmation of the U.S. government’s “AAA” IDR and revision of its long-term rating to negative from stable. S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch have indicated that additional actions on the U.S. government’s ratings could occur if steps toward a credible deficit reduction plan are not taken or if the U.S. experiences a weaker than expected economic recovery. In addition to a downgrade in the credit ratings of or outlook on the U.S. government, a number of other events could adversely affect our debt credit ratings, including actions by governmental entities or others, changes in government support for us, future GAAP losses, and additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. Any such downgrades could lead to major disruptions in the mortgage market and to our business due to lower liquidity, higher borrowing costs, lower asset values, and higher credit losses, and could cause us to experience net losses and net worth deficits. The full range and extent of the adverse effects to our business that would result from any such ratings downgrades and market disruptions cannot be predicted with certainty. However, we expect that they could: (a) adversely affect our liquidity and cause us to limit or suspend new business activities that entail outlays of cash; (b) make new issuances of debt significantly more costly, or potentially prohibitively expensive, and adversely affect the supply of debt financing available to us; (c) reduce the value of our guarantee to investors and adversely affect our ability to issue our guaranteed mortgage-related securities; (d) reduce the value of Treasury and agency mortgage securities we hold; (e) increase the cost of mortgage financing for borrowers, thereby reducing the supply of mortgages available to us to purchase; (f) adversely affect home prices, reducing the value of our REO and likely leading to additional borrower defaults on mortgage loans we guarantee; and (g) trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts. A significant decline in the price performance of or demand for our PCs could have an adverse effect on the volume and/or profitability of our new single-family guarantee business. Security performance is one of Freddie Mac’s more significant risks and competitive issues, with both short- and long-term implications. Our PCs are an integral part of our mortgage purchase program. Our competitiveness in purchasing single-family mortgages from our seller/servicers, and thus the volume and/or profitability of our new single-family guarantee business, can be directly affected by the relative price performance of our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities. The profitability of our securitization financing and our ability to compete for mortgage purchases are affected by the price differential between PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities. Freddie Mac fixed-rate PCs provide for faster remittance of mortgage principal and interest payments to investors than Fannie Mae fixed-rate securities. However, our PCs have typically traded at prices below the level that we believe reflects the full value of their faster remittance cycle, resulting in a pricing discount relative to comparable Fannie Mae securities. This difference in relative pricing creates an economic incentive for customers to conduct a disproportionate share of their single-family business with Fannie Mae and negatively affects the financial performance of our business. Recent deterioration in the pricing of our PCs relative to comparable Fannie Mae securities has adversely affected our competitiveness. Our 2012 mortgage purchase market share was volatile and at times significantly below its average levels during 2010 and 2011. We believe the primary factor adversely affecting our security performance was the substantially lower liquidity of our PCs versus comparable Fannie Mae securities. If this trend continues, the volume and/or profitability of our new single-family guarantee business could be adversely affected. Market conditions can also affect the price performance of our PCs. We may be unable to maintain a liquid market for our PCs, which could adversely affect the price performance of PCs and our single-family market share. A significant reduction in our market share, and thus in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize, could further reduce the liquidity of our PCs. While we may employ a variety of strategies in an effort to support the liquidity and price performance of our PCs and may consider additional strategies, any such strategies may fail or adversely affect our business or we may cease such activities if deemed appropriate. In addition, we believe the liquidity-related price differences between our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities are, in part, the result of factors that are largely outside of our control. Thus, while we may employ strategies in an effort to support the liquidity-related price differences, we do not believe the strategies currently available to us can fully eliminate these price differences over the long-term. A curtailment of such mortgage-related investments portfolio purchase and retention activities that are undertaken primarily in an effort to support the price performance of our PCs may result in a decline in the volume and/or profitability of our new single-family guarantee business, lower comprehensive income, and an accelerated decline in the size of our total mortgage portfolio. 68 Freddie Mac Table of Contents In certain circumstances, we compensate customers for the difference in price between our PCs and comparable Fannie Mae securities, and this could adversely affect the volume and/or profitability of our new single-family guarantee business. We also incur costs in connection with our efforts to support the liquidity and price performance of our PCs, including engaging in transactions that yield less than our target rate of return. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Our Business Segments — Single-Family Guarantee Segment — Securitization Activities” and “— Investments Segment — PC Support Activities.” Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We rely on representations and warranties by seller/servicers about the characteristics of the single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize, and we do not independently verify most of the information that is provided to us before we purchase the loan. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (such as the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, loan officer, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about the property underlying the real estate transaction, borrower, or mortgage loan. While we subsequently review a sample of these loans to determine if such loans are in compliance with our contractual standards, there can be no assurance that this would detect or deter mortgage fraud, or otherwise reduce our exposure to the risk of fraud. We are also exposed to fraud by third parties in the mortgage servicing function, particularly with respect to sales of REO properties, single-family short sales, and other dispositions of non-performing assets. We may experience significant financial losses and reputational damage as a result of such fraud. The value of mortgage-related securities guaranteed by us and held as investments may decline if we are unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee diminishes. A portion of our investments in mortgage-related securities are securities guaranteed by us. Our valuation of these securities is consistent with GAAP and the legal structure of the guarantee transaction. These securities are collateralized by Freddie Mac assets transferred to the securitization trusts and include: (a) REMICs and Other Structured Securities; (b) certain Other Guarantee Transactions; and (c) multifamily PCs. The valuation of our guaranteed mortgage-related securities reflects investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee and the liquidity that our guarantee provides. If we were unable to perform under our guarantee or if investor confidence in our ability to perform under our guarantee were to diminish, the value of our guaranteed securities may decline, thereby reducing the value of the securities reported on our consolidated balance sheets, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This could also adversely affect our ability to sell or otherwise use these securities for liquidity purposes. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations, net worth, and fair value of net assets. Our investment activities and credit guarantee activities expose us to interest rate and other market risks. Changes in interest rates, up or down, could adversely affect our net interest yield. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, either can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest yield to expand or compress. For example, due to the timing of maturities or rate reset dates on variable-rate instruments, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets. This rate change could cause our net interest yield to compress until the effect of the increase is fully reflected in asset yields. Changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest yield. Our GAAP results can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates, and adverse changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net income or net worth. For example, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our derivative portfolio. Since we generally record changes in fair values of our derivatives in current income, such changes could significantly impact our GAAP results. While derivatives are an important aspect of our management of interest-rate risk, they generally increase the volatility of reported net income (loss), because, while fair value changes in derivatives affect net income, fair value changes in several of the types of assets and liabilities being hedged do not affect net income. We could record substantial gains or losses from derivatives in any period, which could significantly contribute to our overall results for the period and affect our net worth as of the end of such period. It is difficult for us to predict the amount or direction of derivative results. Additionally, increases in interest rates could increase other-than-temporary impairments on our investments in non-agency mortgage-related securities. Higher interest rates can result in a reduction in the benefit from expected structural credit enhancements on these securities. Changes in interest rates may also affect prepayment assumptions, thus potentially impacting the fair value of our assets, including our investments in mortgage-related assets. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay 69 Freddie Mac Table of Contents their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. An increased likelihood of prepayment on the mortgages underlying our mortgage-related securities may adversely impact the value of these securities. When interest rates increase, our credit losses from ARM and interest-only ARM loans may increase as borrower payments increase at their reset dates, which increases the borrower’s risk of default. Rising interest rates may also reduce the opportunity for these borrowers to refinance into a fixed-rate loan. Interest rates can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including changes in the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, such as the Federal Reserve. Federal Reserve policies directly and indirectly influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in OAS could materially impact our fair value of net assets and adversely affect future results of operations and net worth. OAS is an estimate of the incremental yield spread between a particular financial instrument and a benchmark yield curve. This includes consideration of potential variability in the instrument’s cash flows resulting from any options embedded in the security, such as prepayment options. The OAS between the mortgage and agency debt sectors can significantly affect the fair value of our net assets. The fair value impact of changes in OAS for a given period represents an estimate of the net unrealized increase or decrease in the fair value of net assets arising from net fluctuations in OAS during that period. We do not attempt to hedge or actively manage the impact of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. Changes in market conditions, including changes in interest rates, liquidity, prepayment and/or default expectations, and the level of uncertainty in the market for a particular asset class may cause fluctuations in OAS. A widening of the OAS on a given asset, which typically causes a decline in the current fair value of that asset, may cause significant mark-to-fair value losses, and may adversely affect our financial results and net worth. Conversely, a narrowing or tightening of the OAS typically causes an increase in the current fair value of that asset, but may reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities in mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities. Consequently, a tightening of the OAS may adversely affect our future financial results and net worth. See “MD&A — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AND ANALYSIS — Consolidated Fair Value Balance Sheets Analysis — Discussion of Fair Value Results” for a more detailed description of the impacts of changes in mortgage-to-debt OAS. While wider spreads might create favorable investment opportunities, we are limited in our ability to take advantage of any such opportunities due to various restrictions on our mortgage-related investments portfolio activities. See “BUSINESS — Conservatorship and Related Matters — Limits on Investment Activity and Our Mortgage-Related Investments Portfolio.” We could experience significant reputational harm, which could affect the future of our company, if our efforts to support the U.S. residential mortgage market do not succeed. We are focused on a number of initiatives designed to support the U.S. residential mortgage market, including the MHA Program and other foreclosure avoidance programs, the servicing alignment initiative and various other alignment initiatives, and the development of various mortgage market enhancements. If these initiatives do not achieve their desired results, or are otherwise perceived to have failed to achieve their objectives, we may experience damage to our reputation, which may impact the extent of future government support for our business and government decisions with respect to the future status and role of Freddie Mac. Negative publicity causing damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business prospects, financial results, or net worth. Reputation risk, or the risk to our financial results and net worth from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers or otherwise impair our customer relationships, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, impede our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, hinder our business prospects, or adversely impact the trading price of our securities. Perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, our seller/servicers or the financial services and mortgage industries as a whole, particularly as they relate to the recent housing and economic downturn, may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputation impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may impair market confidence or investor confidence in our business operations as well. In addition, negative publicity could expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences, including greater regulatory scrutiny or adverse regulatory or legislative changes, and could affect what changes may occur 70 Freddie Mac Table of Contents to our business structure during or following conservatorship, including whether we will continue to exist. These adverse consequences could result from perceptions concerning our activities and role in addressing the housing and economic downturn, concerns about our compensation practices, concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices or our actual or alleged action or failure to act in any number of areas, including corporate governance, regulatory compliance, financial reporting and disclosure, purchases of products perceived to be predatory, safeguarding or using nonpublic personal information, or from actions taken by government regulators in response to our actual or alleged conduct. The servicing alignment initiative, MHA Program, and other efforts to reduce foreclosures, modify loan terms and refinance mortgages, including HARP, may fail to mitigate our credit losses and may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The servicing alignment initiative, MHA Program, and other loss mitigation activities are a key component of our strategy for managing and resolving troubled assets and lowering credit losses. However, our loss mitigation strategies may not be successful and our credit losses may continue to remain high. The costs we incur related to loan modifications and other activities have been, and will likely continue to be, significant because we bear the full cost of the monthly payment reductions related to modifications of loans we own or guarantee, and all applicable servicer and borrower incentives. We are not reimbursed for these costs by Treasury. For information on our loss mitigation activities, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program.” We could be required or elect to make changes to our implementation of our loss mitigation activities that could make these activities more costly to us, both in terms of credit expenses and the cost of implementing and operating the activities. For example, we could be required to use principal reduction to achieve reduced payments for borrowers. This could further increase our losses, as we could bear some or all of the costs of such reductions. A significant number of loans are in the trial period of HAMP or our non-HAMP standard loan modification. For information on completion rates for HAMP and non-HAMP modifications, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program.” A number of loans will fail to complete the applicable trial period or qualify for our other loss mitigation programs. For these loans, the trial period will have effectively delayed the foreclosure process and could increase our losses, to the extent the prices we ultimately receive for the foreclosed properties are less than the prices we could have received had we foreclosed upon the properties earlier. These delays in foreclosure could also cause our REO operations expense to increase, perhaps substantially. Mortgage modification initiatives, particularly any future focus on principal reductions (which at present we do not offer to borrowers), have the potential to change borrower behavior and mortgage underwriting. Principal reductions may create an incentive for borrowers that are current to become delinquent in order to receive a principal reduction. This, coupled with the phenomenon of widespread underwater mortgages, could significantly affect borrower attitudes towards homeownership, the commitment of borrowers to making their mortgage payments, the way the market values residential mortgage assets, the way in which we conduct business and, ultimately, our financial results. Depending on the type of loss mitigation activities we pursue, those activities could result in accelerating or slowing prepayments on our PCs and REMICs and Other Structured Securities, either of which could affect the pricing of such securities. At the direction of FHFA, we implemented a series of changes to HARP in late 2011 and 2012. We subsequently made similar changes to the relief refinance mortgage initiative for loans with LTV ratios of 80% and less. There can be no assurance that the benefits from the revised programs will exceed our costs. We may face greater exposure to credit and other losses on HARP and other relief refinance loans (starting in late 2012) because we are relieving lenders of certain representations and warranties on the original mortgage being refinanced. Due to the impact of HARP and other refinance initiatives of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, we could experience declines in the fair values of certain agency security investments classified as available-for-sale or trading resulting from changes in expectations of mortgage prepayments and lower net interest yields over time on other mortgage-related investments. The ultimate impact of the HARP revisions on our financial results will be driven by the level of borrower participation and the volume of loans with high LTV ratios that we acquire under the program. Over time, relief refinance mortgages with LTV ratios above 80% may not perform as well as relief refinance mortgages with LTV ratios of 80% and below because of the continued high LTV ratios of these loans. Based on our historical experience, there is an increase in borrower default risk as LTV ratios increase. In addition, relief refinance mortgages may not be covered by mortgage insurance for the full excess of their UPB over 80%. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Credit Risk — Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk — Single-Family Loan Workouts and the MHA Program.” 71 Freddie Mac Table of Contents We are devoting significant internal resources to the implementation of the servicing alignment initiative and the MHA Program. The costs we incur related to these initiatives have been, and will likely continue to be, significant. The size and scope of these efforts may also limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities or corporate initiatives. We may experience further write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including our investment securities, net deferred tax assets, REO properties or mortgage loans, that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We experienced significant losses and write-downs relating to certain of our assets during the past several years, including significant declines in market value, impairments of our investment securities, write-downs of REO properties, losses on non-performing loans removed from PC pools, and impairments on other assets. The fair value of our assets may be further adversely affected by continued weakness in the economy, any further deterioration in the housing and financial markets, additional ratings downgrades, or other events. Since we entered into conservatorship in September 2008, we have established a significant valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. If future events significantly alter our current outlook, additional valuation allowances may need to be established for the remaining deferred tax asset. The future status and role of Freddie Mac could be affected by actions of the Conservator, and legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company. The uncertainty of these developments could materially affect our operations, which could in turn affect our ability or intent to hold investments until the recovery of any temporary unrealized losses. We may experience additional write-downs and losses relating to our assets, including those that are currently AAA-rated, and the fair values of our assets may decline in the future. This could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our equity securities. Our common stock and classes of preferred stock that previously were listed and traded on the NYSE were delisted from the NYSE effective July 8, 2010, and now trade on the OTCQB Marketplace. The market price of our common stock declined significantly between June 16, 2010, the date we announced our intention to delist these securities, and July 8, 2010, the first day the common stock traded exclusively on the OTC market, and may decline further. Trading volumes on the OTCQB Marketplace have generally been, and will likely continue to be, less than those on the NYSE, which would make it more difficult for investors to execute transactions in our securities and could make the prices of our securities decline or be more volatile. Operational Risks We face significant levels of operational risk. Our risk management efforts may not effectively mitigate the risks we seek to manage. We face significant levels of operational risk, due to a variety of factors, including: (a) the level and pace of organizational change within our company; (b) the complexity of our business operations; (c) limitation in our core systems; (d) the fact that we face a variety of different, and potentially competing, business objectives and new FHFA-mandated activities (e.g., the initiatives we are pursuing under the Conservatorship Scorecard); and (e) employee turnover. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor and mitigate operational risks related to our business. Our risk management policies, procedures and techniques may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks we have identified or to appropriately identify additional risks to which we are subject. See “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK” and “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT” for a discussion of our approach to managing certain of the risks we face. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses and we may otherwise be adversely affected by delays and deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by delays and deficiencies in the foreclosure process, which could increase our expenses. The average length of time for foreclosure of a Freddie Mac loan significantly increased in recent years, particularly in states that require a judicial foreclosure process, and may further increase. A number of factors have contributed to this 72 Freddie Mac Table of Contents increase, including: (a) the increasingly lengthy foreclosure process in many states (affected, in some states, by new foreclosure requirements); (b) the difficulty of servicers in processing the high volume of seriously delinquent loans, due in part to general constraints on servicer capacity and the increasing complexity of the servicing function; and (c) concerns about deficiencies in seller/servicers’ conduct of the foreclosure process. For more information on these developments, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Developments Concerning Single-Family Servicing Practices.” Delays in the foreclosure process could cause our credit losses to increase for a number of reasons. For example, properties awaiting foreclosure could deteriorate until we acquire ownership of them through foreclosure. This would increase our expenses to repair and maintain the properties when we do acquire them. Such delays may also adversely affect the values of, and our losses on, the non-agency mortgage-related securities we hold. Delays in the foreclosure process may also adversely affect trends in home prices regionally or nationally, which could also adversely affect our financial results. It also is possible that mortgage insurance claims could be reduced if delays caused by servicers’ deficient foreclosure practices prevent servicers from completing foreclosures within required timelines defined by mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance companies establish foreclosure timelines that vary by state and range between 60 and 990 days. Delays in the foreclosure process could create fluctuations in our single-family credit statistics. For example, our realization of credit losses, which consists of REO operations income (expense) plus charge-offs, net, could be delayed because we typically record charge-offs at the time we take ownership of a property through foreclosure. Delays could also temporarily increase the number of seriously delinquent loans that remain in our single-family mortgage portfolio, which could result in higher reported serious delinquency rates and a larger number of non-performing loans than would otherwise have been the case. In the fall of 2010, several large seller/servicers announced issues relating to the improper preparation and execution of certain documents used in foreclosure proceedings. These announcements raised various concerns relating to foreclosure practices, and caused significant delays in the foreclosure process, particularly during 2011. It is possible that additional deficiencies in foreclosure practices will be identified in the future. The integrity of the foreclosure process is critical to our business, and our financial results could be adversely affected by deficiencies in the conduct of that process. Issues related to mortgages recorded through the MERS System could delay or disrupt foreclosure activities and have an adverse effect on our business. The Mortgage Electronic Registration System, or the MERS® System, is an electronic registry that is widely used by seller/servicers, Freddie Mac, and other participants in the mortgage finance industry, to maintain records of beneficial ownership of mortgages. The MERS System is owned, operated, and maintained by MERSCORP Holdings, Inc., a privately held company (which we refer to below as MERSCORP), the shareholders of which include a number of organizations in the mortgage industry, including Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and certain seller/servicers, mortgage insurance companies, and title insurance companies. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., or MERS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, has the ability to serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and in that role become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. Freddie Mac seller/servicers may choose to use MERS as a nominee, though they are no longer permitted to initiate foreclosures in MERS’ name with respect to mortgages owned or guaranteed by us. Approximately 41% of the loans Freddie Mac owns or guarantees were registered in MERS’ name as of December 31, 2012; the beneficial ownership and the ownership of the servicing rights related to those loans are tracked in the MERS System. MERS has been the subject of numerous lawsuits challenging foreclosures on mortgages for which MERS is mortgagee of record as nominee for the beneficial owner. It is possible that adverse judicial decisions, regulatory proceedings or action, or legislative action related to MERS, could delay or disrupt foreclosure of mortgages that are registered on the MERS System. Negative publicity about MERS could adversely affect the mortgage industry and negatively impact public confidence in the foreclosure process, which could lead to legislative or regulatory action. Because MERS often executes legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings, it is possible that investigations by governmental authorities and others into deficiencies in foreclosure practices may negatively impact MERS and the MERS System. Federal or state legislation or regulatory action could prevent us from using the MERS System for mortgages that we own, guarantee, and securitize, or could create additional requirements for the transfer of mortgages that could affect the process for and costs of acquiring, transferring, servicing, and foreclosing on mortgages. Such legislation or regulatory action 73 Freddie Mac Table of Contents could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, we could be required to transfer mortgages out of the MERS System. There is also uncertainty regarding the extent to which seller/servicers will choose to use the MERS System in the future. Failures by MERS to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process could pose legal and operational risks for us. We may also face significant reputational risk due to our ties to MERS, as we are a shareholder of MERSCORP and a Freddie Mac officer serves on MERSCORP’s board of directors. In April 2011, federal banking regulators and FHFA entered into a consent order with MERSCORP and MERS, which stated that such regulators had identified a number of deficiencies and unsafe or unsound practices by both entities that present financial, operational, compliance, legal and reputational risk to both entities and to participating members, including Freddie Mac. The regulators required MERSCORP and MERS to take certain corrective actions, including simplifying MERSCORP’s governance structures. Such changes have resulted in our giving up certain governance rights. For example, while Freddie Mac had the right to appoint a Freddie Mac officer to serve on MERS’ board of directors in the past, it is not certain if this will continue. It is unclear what the consequent impact of these changes will be on Freddie Mac’s relationship with and rights with respect to the two entities. Weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and in disclosure controls could result in errors and inadequate disclosures, affect operating results, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results. We face continuing challenges because of deficiencies in our controls. Control deficiencies could result in errors, and lead to inadequate or untimely disclosures, and affect operating results. Control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial results, which may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our securities. For information about our ineffective disclosure controls and one material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, see “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” There are a number of factors that may impede our efforts to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, including: (a) the nature of the conservatorship and our relationship with FHFA; (b) the complexity of, and significant changes in, our business activities and related GAAP requirements; (c) employee and management turnover; (d) internal reorganizations; (e) uncertainty regarding the sustainability of newly established controls; (f) data quality or servicing-related issues; and (g) the uncertain long-term impacts of the recent housing and economic downturn on the results of our models, which are used for financial accounting and reporting purposes. Disruptive levels of employee turnover could negatively impact our internal control environment, including internal control over financial reporting, and ability to issue timely financial statements. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve and maintain our internal control over financial reporting will ultimately be successful. Effectively designed and operated internal control over financial reporting provides only reasonable assurance that material errors in our financial statements will be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting increases the risk of a material error in our reported financial results and delay in our financial reporting timeline. Depending on the nature of a control failure and any required remediation, ineffective controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face risks and uncertainties associated with the models that we use for financial accounting and reporting purposes, to make business decisions, and to manage risks. Market conditions have raised these risks and uncertainties. We make significant use of business and financial models for financial accounting and reporting purposes and to manage risk. We face risk associated with our use of models. First, there is inherent uncertainty associated with model results. Second, we could fail to properly implement, operate, or use our models. Either of these situations could adversely affect our financial statements and our ability to manage risks. We use market-based information as inputs to our models. However, it can take time for data providers to prepare information, and thus the most recent information may not be available for the preparation of our financial statements. When market conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is an increased risk that the inputs reflected in our models are not representative of current market conditions. The severe deterioration of the housing and credit markets beginning in 2008 and, more recently, the extended period of economic weakness and uncertainty have increased the risks associated with our use of models. For example, certain economic events or the implementation of government policies could create increased model uncertainty as models may not fully capture these events, which makes it more difficult to assess model performance and requires a higher degree of 74 Freddie Mac Table of Contents management judgment. Our models may not perform as well in situations for which there are few or no recent historical precedents. We have adjusted our models in response to recent events, but there remains considerable uncertainty about model results. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Our models rely on various assumptions that may be incorrect, including that historical experience can be used to predict future results. It has been more difficult to predict the behaviors of the housing and credit capital markets and market participants over the past several years, due to, among other factors: (a) the uncertainty concerning trends in home prices; (b) the lack of historical evidence about the behavior of deeply underwater borrowers, the effect of an extended period of extremely low interest rates on prepayments, and the impact of widespread loan refinancing and modification programs (such as HARP and HAMP), including the potential for the extensive use of principal reductions; and (c) the impact of the concerns about deficiencies in foreclosure documentation practices and related delays in the foreclosure process. We face the risk that we could fail to implement, operate, or adjust or use our models properly. For example, the assumptions underlying a model could be invalid, or we could apply a model to events or products outside the model’s intended use. We may fail to code a model correctly or we could use incorrect data. The complexity and interconnectivity of our models create additional risk regarding the accuracy of model output. While we have processes and controls in place designed to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurances that such processes and controls will be successful. This risk may be elevated to the extent that we have difficulty attracting and retaining employees with the necessary experience and skills. We have increased our use of third-party models. This may expose us to additional risk, as third-parties typically do not provide us with proprietary information regarding their models. As a result, we may not fully understand the risks associated with the use of such models. Management often needs to exercise judgment to interpret or adjust modeled results to take into account new information or changes in conditions. The dramatic changes in the housing and credit capital markets in recent years have required frequent adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment in the interpretation and adjustment of the results produced by our models. This further increases both the uncertainty about model results and the risk of errors in the implementation, operation, or use of the models. We face the risk that the valuations, risk metrics, amortization results, loan loss reserve estimations, and security impairment charges produced by our models may be different from actual results, which could adversely affect our business results, cash flows, fair value of net assets, business prospects, and future financial results. For example, our models may under-predict the losses we will suffer in various aspects of our business. Changes in, or replacements of, any of our models or in any of the assumptions, judgments, or estimates used in the models may cause the results generated by the model to be materially different from those generated by the prior model. The different results could cause a revision of previously reported financial condition or results of operations, depending on when the change to the model, assumption, judgment, or estimate is implemented. Any such changes may also cause difficulties in comparisons of the financial condition or results of operations of prior or future periods. Due to increased uncertainty about model results, we also face increased risk that we could make poor business decisions in areas where model results are an important factor, including loan purchases, management and guarantee fee pricing, asset and liability management, market risk management, and quality-control sampling strategies for loans in our single-family credit guarantee portfolio. Furthermore, any strategies we employ to attempt to manage the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective. See “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES” and “QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK — Interest-Rate Risk and Other Market Risks” for more information on our use of models. Changes in our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, could materially affect how we report our financial condition or results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our accounting policies, as well as estimates we make, are “critical,” as they are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and they require management to make particularly difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates, often regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ from our estimates and the use of different judgments and assumptions related to these policies and estimates could have a material 75 Freddie Mac Table of Contents impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a description of our critical accounting policies, see “MD&A — CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES.” From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised accounting guidance could result in material adverse effects to our net worth and result in or contribute to the need for additional draws under the Purchase Agreement. FHFA may require us to change our accounting policies, including to align more closely with those of Fannie Mae. FHFA may also require us and Fannie Mae to have the same independent public accounting firm. Either of these events could significantly increase our expenses and require a substantial time commitment of management. For example, in April 2012, FHFA issued an advisory bulletin that could have an effect on our provision for credit losses in the future. The accounting methods outlined in FHFA’s advisory bulletin are significantly different from our current methods of accounting for single-family loans that are 180 days or more delinquent. For more information, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments — FHFA Advisory Bulletin.” See “NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES” for more information. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and cause losses. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people, or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, errors in our financial statements, disruption of our business, liability to customers, further legislative or regulatory intervention, or reputational damage. Servicing and loss mitigation processes are currently under considerable stress, which increases the risk that we may experience further operational problems in the future. Our core systems and technical architecture include many legacy systems and applications that lack scalability and flexibility, which increases the risk of system failure. While we are working to enhance the quality of our infrastructure, we have had difficulty in the past conducting large-scale infrastructure improvement projects. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and manage and analyze significant amounts of information, much of which is provided by third parties. The transactions we process are complex and are subject to various legal, accounting, and regulatory standards. The types of transactions we process and the standards relating to those transactions can change rapidly in response to external events, such as the implementation of government-mandated programs and changes in market conditions. Our financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. The information provided by third parties may be incorrect, or we may fail to properly manage or analyze it. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions or new types of transactions or products could constrain our ability to pursue new business initiatives or change or improve existing business activities. Our employees could act improperly for their own gain and cause unexpected losses or reputational damage. While we have processes and systems in place designed to prevent and detect fraud, there can be no assurance that such processes and systems will be successful. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearinghouses, or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our customers, and manage our exposure to risk. Most of our key business activities are conducted in our principal offices located in McLean, Virginia and represent a concentrated risk of people, technology, and facilities. Despite the contingency plans and local recovery facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business would be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the geographical area in which we are located. Potential disruptions may include outages or disruptions to electrical, communications, transportation, or other services we use or that are provided to us. If a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our customers or counterparties may deteriorate and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that allow us to carry out critical business functions at an acceptable level. 76 Freddie Mac Table of Contents This geographical concentration also creates exposure to the risk that a catastrophic event, such as a terrorist event or natural disaster, could result in a significant business disruption and an inability to process transactions through normal business operations. Any measures we take to mitigate this risk may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. Freddie Mac management has determined that current business recovery capabilities would not be effective in the event of a catastrophic regional business event and could result in a significant business disruption and inability to process transactions through normal business processes. While management has developed a remediation plan to address the current capability gaps, any measures we take to mitigate this risk may not be sufficient to respond to the full range of catastrophic events that may occur. Management changes and turnover of key staff could increase our operational and control risks and have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. Disruptive levels of turnover among both executives and other employees could lead to operational or control failures, affect our ability to execute ongoing business activities, cause delays and disruptions in the implementation of FHFA-directed and other important business initiatives, delay or disrupt critical technology and other projects, and erode our business, modeling, internal audit, risk management, information security, financial reporting, legal, compliance, and other capabilities. Internal reorganizations could have a similar effect. Any such event could add to the risk of operational or control failures, including a failure in the effective operation of our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures. Operational or control failures could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see “MD&A — RISK MANAGEMENT — Operational Risks” and “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” We may not be able to protect the security of our systems or the confidentiality of our information from cyber attack and other unauthorized access, disclosure, and disruption. Our operations rely on the secure receipt, processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks and with our business partners. Like many corporations and government entities, from time to time we have been, and likely will continue to be, the target of attempted cyber attacks. Although Freddie Mac devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes which are designed to protect the security of its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to Freddie Mac and its customers, there is no assurance that all of Freddie Mac’s security measures will provide fully effective security. Our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to cyber attack, unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, or other attempts to harm our systems or misuse our confidential information. If one or more of such events were to occur, this potentially could jeopardize or result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or corruption of confidential and other information (including information of our customers or our counterparties), or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. This could result in significant losses or reputational damage, adversely affect our relationships with our customers and counterparties, and otherwise harm our business. We could also face regulatory action. We might be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we might be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured. We rely on third parties for certain important functions, including some that are critical to financial reporting, our mortgage-related investment activity, and mortgage loan underwriting. Any failures by those vendors could disrupt our business operations. At times, we outsource certain key functions to external parties, which may include processes related to: (a) functions for trade capture, market risk management analytics, and financial instrument valuation, (b) modeling, (c) custody and recordkeeping for our mortgage-related investments; (d) processing functions for mortgage loan underwriting and servicing; (e) certain services we provide to Treasury in our role as program compliance agent under HAMP; and (f) certain technology infrastructure and operations. We may enter into other key outsourcing relationships in the future. If one or more of these key external parties were not able to perform their functions for a period of time, at an acceptable service level, or for increased volumes, our business operations could be constrained, disrupted, or otherwise negatively impacted. Our use of vendors also exposes us to the risk of a loss of intellectual property or of confidential information or other harm. We may also be exposed to reputational harm, to the extent vendors do not conduct their activities under appropriate ethical standards. Our ability to monitor the activities or performance of vendors may be constrained. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to provide services to us. 77 Freddie Mac Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulation may adversely affect our business activities and financial results. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the regulation of the financial services industry and could affect us in substantial and unforeseeable ways and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and net worth. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes could affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose significant additional costs on us, limit the products we offer, require us to increase our regulatory capital, or make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit executives and other employees. We will also face a more complicated regulatory environment due to the Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes, which will increase compliance costs and could divert management attention or other resources. The Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes also significantly affect many aspects of the financial services industry and may significantly change the business practices of our customers and counterparties; it is possible that any such changes will adversely affect our business and financial results. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is being accomplished through numerous rulemakings, many of which are still in process. The final effects of the legislation will not be known with certainty until these rulemakings are complete. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the preparation of studies of a wide range of issues, which could lead to additional legislative or regulatory changes. It could be difficult for us to comply with any future regulatory changes in a timely manner, due to the potential scope and number of such changes, which could limit our operations and expose us to liability. The long-term impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes on our business and the financial services industry will depend on a number of factors that are difficult to predict, including our ability to successfully implement any changes to our business, changes in consumer behavior, and our competitors’ and customers’ responses to the Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes. Examples of aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that may significantly affect us include the following: • The Financial Stability Oversight Council could designate Freddie Mac as a non-bank financial company to be subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. If this occurs, the Federal Reserve will have authority to examine Freddie Mac and we may be required to meet more stringent prudential standards than those applicable to other non-bank financial companies. New prudential standards could include requirements related to risk-based capital and leverage, liquidity, single-counterparty credit limits, overall risk management and risk committees, stress tests, and debt-to-equity limits, among other requirements. • The Dodd-Frank Act will create new standards and requirements related to asset-backed securities, including requiring securitizers and potentially originators to retain a portion of the underlying loans’ credit risk. Any such new standards and requirements could modify or remove incentives for financial institutions to sell mortgage loans to us. • The Dodd-Frank Act and related current and future regulatory changes could have a negative effect on the volume of mortgage originations, and thus adversely affect the number of mortgages available for us to purchase or guarantee. For more information on the Dodd-Frank Act, see “BUSINESS — Regulation and Supervision — Legislative and Regulatory Developments.” Legislative or regulatory actions could adversely affect our business activities and financial results. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor, and possible GSE reform discussed in “Conservatorship and Related Matters — The future status and role of Freddie Mac is uncertain and could be materially adversely affected by legislative and regulatory action that alters the ownership, structure, and mission of the company,” our business initiatives may be directly adversely affected by other legislative and regulatory actions at the federal, state, and local levels. We could be negatively affected by legislation or regulatory action that changes the foreclosure process of any individual state. For example, various states and local jurisdictions have implemented mediation programs designed to bring servicers and borrowers together to negotiate workout options. These actions could delay the foreclosure process and increase our expenses, including by potentially delaying the final resolution of seriously delinquent mortgage loans and the disposition of non-performing assets. We could also be affected by any legislative or regulatory changes that would expand the responsibilities and liability of servicers and assignees for maintaining vacant properties prior to foreclosure. These laws and regulatory changes could significantly expand mortgage costs and liabilities. We could be affected by legislative or regulatory changes that permit or require principal reductions, including through the bankruptcy 78 Freddie Mac Table of Contents process. Our business could also be adversely affected by any modification, reduction, or repeal of the federal income tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments. A number of local governments are considering or may consider using eminent domain to seize mortgage loans and forgive principal on the loans. Such seizures, if they are successful, could result in further losses and write-downs relating to our investment securities and could increase our credit losses. We are subject to a number of lawsuits challenging our statutory exemption from real estate transfer taxes imposed on the transfer of real property for which we were the grantor or grantee. If we were to become subject to transfer taxes in a large number of states and localities, and if we were required to pay a number of years of past transfer taxes in these states and localities, it would increase our costs going forward and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. For more information, see “NOTE 17: LEGAL CONTINGENCIES — Lawsuits Involving Real Estate Transfer Taxes.” Pursuant to the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, FHFA required Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to increase guarantee fees by no less than 10 basis points above the average guarantee fees charged in 2011 on single-family mortgage-backed securities to fund the payroll tax cut that occurred in 2012. If we are found to be out of compliance with this requirement of the Act for two consecutive years, we will be precluded from providing any guarantee for a period to be determined by FHFA, but in no case less than one year. Legislation or regulatory actions could indirectly adversely affect us to the extent such legislation or actions affect the activities of banks, savings institutions, insurance companies, securities dealers, and other regulated entities that constitute a significant part of our customer base or counterparties, or could indirectly affect us to the extent that they modify industry practices. Legislative or regulatory provisions that remove incentives for these entities to sell mortgage loans to us, purchase our securities or enter into derivatives, or other transactions with us could have a material adverse effect on our business results and financial condition. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC (collectively, the “Banking Agencies”) are in the process of substantially revising capital requirements applicable to banking organizations. In June 2012, the Banking Agencies jointly released three notices of proposed rulemaking that would revise and replace the Banking Agencies’ current capital rules by implementing the Basel III regulatory reforms as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, in June 2012, the Banking Agencies jointly announced the finalization of a market risk capital rule applicable to banking organizations with significant trading assets and liabilities. Phase-in of new bank capital requirements is expected to take several years and there is significant uncertainty about how the proposed regulations will be finalized and what effects any new bank capital requirements will have on us. For example, it is possible that any new regulations on the capital treatment of mortgage servicing rights, risk-based capital requirements for credit risk, and liquidity treatment of our debt and guarantee obligations could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We may make certain changes to our business in an attempt to meet our housing goals and subgoals. We may make adjustments to our mortgage loan sourcing and purchase strategies in an effort to meet our housing goals and subgoals, including changes to our underwriting standards and the expanded use of targeted initiatives to reach underserved populations. For example, we may purchase loans that offer lower expected returns on our investment and potentially increase our exposure to credit losses. Doing so could cause us to forgo other purchase opportunities that we would expect to be more profitable. If our current efforts to meet the goals and subgoals prove to be insufficient, we may need to take additional steps that could potentially adversely affect our profitability. FHFA has not yet published a final rule with respect to our duty to serve underserved markets. However, it is possible that we could also make changes to our business in the future in response to this duty. If we do not meet our housing goals or duty to serve requirements, and FHFA finds that the goals or requirements were feasible, we may become subject to a housing plan that could require us to take additional steps that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are involved in legal proceedings and governmental investigations that could result in the payment of substantial damages or otherwise harm our business. We are a party to various legal actions. In addition, certain of our former directors and officers are involved in legal proceedings for which they may be entitled to reimbursement by us for costs and expenses of the proceedings. The defense of these or any future claims or proceedings could divert management’s attention and resources from the needs of the business. We may be required to establish reserves and to make substantial payments in the event of adverse judgments or settlements of any such claims, investigations, proceedings, or examinations. Any legal proceeding, governmental investigation, or IRS examination issue, even if resolved in our favor, could result in negative publicity or cause us to incur significant legal and 79 Freddie Mac Table of Contents other expenses. Furthermore, developments in, outcomes of, impacts of, and costs, expenses, settlements, and judgments related to these legal proceedings and governmental investigations and examinations may differ from our expectations and exceed any amounts for which we have reserved or require adjustments to such reserves. We are also cooperating with other investigations. These proceedings could divert management’s attention or other resources. See “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” and “NOTE 17: LEGAL CONTINGENCIES” for information about our pending legal proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 