RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and the following risk factors. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely effected by any of these risks. This annual report also contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Forward Looking Statements.” Certain Risks Relating To Doing Business In Hong Kong And The People’s Republic Of China (the “PRC” or “China”). PRC Sovereignty Over Hong Kong Still Developing. The Company’s executive and principal offices are located in Hong Kong, a Special Administrative Region of China (or “SAR”; Hong Kong is sometimes herein referred to as the “Hong Kong SAR”). As provided in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong (the “Joint Declaration”) and the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR of China (the “Basic Law”), the Hong Kong SAR is provided a high degree of autonomy except in foreign and defense affairs. The PRC’s political system and policies are not practiced in Hong Kong. Under this principle of “one country, two systems”, Hong Kong maintains a legal system that is based on common law and is different from that of the PRC. 7 The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be influenced by the political situation in Hong Kong and by the general state of the Hong Kong economy. See “ — Economic Stability Uncertain.” There can be no assurance that these past or any prospective future changes in political, economic or commercial conditions in Hong Kong and the PRC will not result in a material adverse effect upon the Company. Economic Stability Uncertain. Most economies in the Far East had suffered from an economic instability. There can be no assurance that there be a recovery, most especially in light of the recent global economic downturn. Continued growth in the PRC is dependent upon an adequate supply of energy. There is no assurance that adequate supplies of energy can be developed or found to fuel the PRC’s continued economic growth. The PRC’s Economic, Political And Social Conditions: Slowdown In Growth. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past thirty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among the various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in applicable tax regulations, rates of currency exchange, inflation and effects to curb inflation. The PRC economy appears to be moving from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Recently, the PRC government predicted a steep slowdown in growth from a 9.2% GDP in 2011 to a 7.5% GDP in 2012 and plans to lower growth to 7.0% GDP in 2015 with a focus on raising the incomes of the average citizen and seek a national economy less driven by investment and more by consumer demand. Although past predictions have not always proven reliable, if these predictions prove accurate, t hey, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially and adversely effect our business and operations. The success of the Company’s activities in the PRC depends on the Company’s continued ability to overcome circumstances specifically effecting the industrial sector, including the relatively poor infrastructure, road transportation and communications network and an uncertain legal and regulatory environment. Economic Reforms May Not Continue Or Impact Positively On The Company; Changing Business Environment. Over the past several years, the PRC’s government has pursued economic reform policies including encouraging private economic activities and decentralization of economic deregulation. It appears that the PRC government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the PRC government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxes, restrictions on currency conversion and imports could materially and adversely effect our business and operating results. Recently, the PRC government predicted that its annual growth rate in imports and exports would drop to 10% compared to more than 24% in 2011.The nationalization or other expropriations of private enterprises by the PRC government could result in a loss of our investments in actual funds and time and effort, in China. The Company’s results at times may also be adversely effected by: (1) changes in political, economic and social conditions in the PRC; (2) changes in government policies such as changes in laws and regulations (or their interpretation); (3) the introduction of additional measures to control inflation; (4) changes in the rate or method of taxation; (5) imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion remittances abroad; (6) reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions; and (7) a return to the more centrally-planned economy that existed previously. 8 We Are Subject To International Economic And Political Risks, Over Which We Have Little Or No Control. Doing business entirely outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and other unforeseeable risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. The Recent Financial Crisis and Economic Conditions May Have A Material Adverse Impact on Our Business and Financial Conditions. Worldwide economies had been deteriorating recently. Global markets have experienced significant turmoil and upheavals characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices and securities and commodities, diminished credit availability, inability to access capital markets, waves of bankruptcies, high unemployment and declining consumer and business confidence. It appears that the worldwide economic deterioration has negatively impacted our revenue and other results of operation. We cannot predict the short and long-term impact of these events on our business and financial condition that may be materially and adversely effected in the future. Uneven Economic Growth. The PRC’s economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, but that growth has been uneven among various geographic regions and economic sectors. Economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increase of such disparities could adversely effect political or social stability. The PRC’s economy experienced a slowdown beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the global economic crisis. There can be no assurance that the PRC’s economy will grow, that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform. The slowdown has had a negative effect on our business. PRC Inflation. In recent years, the PRC has not experienced significant inflation, and thus inflation has not had a significant effect on our business historically. In response to the increased inflation rate during 2004, the Chinese government announced measures to restrict lending and investment in the PRC in order to reduce inflationary pressure on the PRC’s economy; and the inflation rate was reduced in 2005 and 2006, escalated in 2007 and 2008 at a rate of 5.9%, was reduced by 0.7% in 2009 and increased by 3.3% and 5.4% in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Efforts by the PRC to curb inflation may also curb economic growth, increase our overhead costs and adversely affect our sales. Inflationary increases cause a corresponding increase in our general overhead. If the PRC rate of inflation continues to increases, the Chinese government may introduce further measures intended to reduce the inflation rate in the PRC. Any such measures adopted by the Chinese government may not be successful in reducing or slowing the increase in the PRC’s inflation rate. A sustained or increased inflation in the PRC may have an adverse impact on the PRC’s economy and may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Uncertain Legal System And Application Of Laws. The legislative trend in the PRC over the past decade has been to enhance the protection afforded to foreign investment and allow for more active control by foreign parties of foreign invested enterprises. This may not continue. In addition, as the PRC economy, business and commercial framework and legal system all continue to develop, that development may adversely affect the Company’s activities in the PRC or the ability of the Company to enter into Sino-foreign agreements. PRC Legal System Business Laws Developing. The PRC does not yet possess a comprehensive body of business law or a consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the enforcement, interpretation and implementation of existing laws, regulations or agreements may be sporadic, inconsistent and subject to considerable discretion. The PRC’s judiciary has not had sufficient opportunity to gain experience in enforcing laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. As the legal system develops, entities such as the Company may be adversely affected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof) and preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. Even when adequate law exists in the PRC, it may not be possible to obtain speedy and equitable enforcement of the law. 9 Government Currency Controls. The PRC government imposes control over its foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of its currency, Renminbi (“RMB”) into foreign exchange and through restrictions on foreign imports. The conversion of RMB into Hong Kong and United States Dollars (“U.S. Dollars”) must be based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”), which rates are set daily based on the previous day’s Chinese interbank foreign exchange market rate with reference to current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Currently, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow band against the U.S. Dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely effect the Company because of increases in overhead costs, adverse effects on sales, foreign currency denominated liabilities, and may materially adversely effect the value, translated into U.S. dollars, of the Company’s net fixed assets situated and to be situated in the PRC, earnings and dividends. Foreign Currency Risk. The Company operates in Hong Kong, the PRC and trades with both local and overseas customers, and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to purchases in, Hong Kong dollar, Renminbi and Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from committed and unmatched future commercial transactions, such as confirmed import purchase orders and sales orders, recognized assets and liabilities, and net investment in the PRC operations. The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain foreign currency exposures. There can be no assurances that the Company’s hedging strategies will be adequate to avoid this foreign exchange risk. Turbulent Relations With The United States Of America (“United States”). Differences between the United States and PRC governments on some political issues continue occasionally to color their relationship. These occasional controversies could materially and adversely effect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely effect the market price of our Ordinary Shares, whether or not they adversely effect our business. Certain Risks Relating To The Company’s Business Decline in Revenues; Operating Loss; Loss Before Income Taxes. In Fiscal 2008, the Company had revenues of approximately US$ 31,738, 000, operating income of approximately US$ 370,000 and income before income taxes of approximately US$ 560,000. In Fiscal 2009, the Company had revenues of approximately US$ 27,336,000, an operating loss of approximately US$ 138,000 and a loss before income taxes of approximately US$ 40,000. In Fiscal 2010, the Company had revenues of approximately US$ 22,305,000, an operating loss of approximately US$ 1,378,000 and a loss before income taxes of US$ 1,326,000. In Fiscal 2011, the Company had revenues of approximately US$ 20,213,000, operating loss of approximately US$ 1,674,000 and a loss before income tax of US$1,204,000. The Company primarily attributes the revenue reduction, operating loss and loss before income taxes in Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2010 to the global economic downturn and having key suppliers selling their products through China suppliers other than the Company. Exacerbating these losses in Fiscal 2010 was the further inclination of key suppliers selling their products other than through the Company and the delay of site readiness of several waste water treatment contracts including one site delayed by a fatal traffic accident. A major portion of the operating loss for Fiscal 2011 was principally from Yixing Pact Environmental Technology Company Limited and Pact Asia Pacific Limited for the amount of approximately US$932,000 as a result of loss of approximately US$632,000 for its joint venture and research and development expenses of approximately US$193,000 incurred for its ballast water treatment system. As the global economic downturn appears to be continuing, showing only modest positive economic improvement and the Company may face further competition by having key suppliers selling their products through China suppliers other than the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company’s revenues will not decline further and losses will not increase. Future Plans To Increase Revenue ; Decrease Losses and Return To Profitability Uncertain. The Company has been attempting to stem the decline in revenue by streamlining its activities. The Company has reduced its staff, consolidated offices and is trying to improve staff efficiencies. To date this has not been successful but the Company plans to continue these economizing efforts. Also, land and sea trials will be conducted in China in April and October of this year and, if successful, the Company hopes to receive revenues from orders to retrofit and install its ballast water treatment process into ocean going vessels. There can be no assurance that continuing its streamlining efforts and its testing of its ballast water treatment process will be successful or, if successful, that the process will result in significant revenues to the Company. 10 We Have Made And May Make Further Acquisitions Without Your Approval. Although we endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly or accurately ascertain all such risks. We will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition candidates and in deciding if they should be acquired for cash, equity or debt, and in what combination of cash, equity and/or debt. We have taken and are seeking to take equity positions in related businesses. We will not seek stockholder approval for any additional acquisitions unless required by applicable law and regulations. Our stockholders will not have an opportunity to review financial and other information on acquisition candidates prior to consummation of any acquisitions under almost all circumstances. Investors will be relying upon our management, upon whose judgment the investor must depend, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. There can be no assurance that the Company will locate and successfully complete any such additional acquisitions, or any acquisition will perform as anticipated, will not result in significant unexpected liabilities or will ever contribute significant revenues or profits to the Company or that the Company will not lose its entire investment in any acquisition. Dependence Upon Management. The Company is dependent upon the services of its executive officers, in particular Mr. T.C. Leung, the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors and its Chief Executive Officer. The business of the Company could be adversely effected by the loss of services of, or a material reduction in the amount of time devoted to the Company by its executive officers. The Company does not maintain “Key Man” life insurance on the lives of any of its officers and directors. See Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Adverse Impact Upon The Company Of PRC’s Credit Restrictions. The Company faces increasing competition from other distributors of substantially similar products and manufacturers themselves, both foreign and Chinese. The Company faces its principal competition from foreign manufacturers and other distributors of their products situated in Hong Kong and the PRC. Competition may cause purchaser demands for price reductions and reduced profit margin. Competition With Vendors. As the Company assembles products of the kind that it presently distributes, the Company may directly compete with certain of its vendors. Any such direct competition may adversely affect its relationship with its vendors. See Item 4. “Information on the Company.” Dependence On Vendors: Lack of Long Term Arrangements: Loss of Vendors. The Company distributes supplies manufactured by a number of vendors, including, Hioki E.E. Corporation (“Hioki”), Biotage Sweden AB (“Biotage”), Hach Company-Lachat Instruments (“Hach”), and Stanford Research Systems, Inc. (“Stanford”), that are the Company’s largest suppliers, pursuant to short term arrangements. Although alternative sources of supply exist, there can be no assurance that the termination of the Company’s relationship with any of the above or other vendors would not have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations due to the Company’s dependence on these vendors. A substantial number of the Company’s suppliers have been selling their products into China directly and through other distributors. During Fiscal 2009 our sales, expressed as a percentage of total sales, to Hong Kong increased by 10% while our sales to the PRC decreased by 9% when compared to Fiscal 2008. The 10% increase in sales to Hong Kong was primarily due to an increase in sales of Thermo Fisher Scientific Group's products. This change continued into Fiscal 2010. The 9% decrease in sales to the PRC was primarily due to the global economic downturn and additional sales by our key suppliers in the PRC through distributors other than the Company. During Fiscal 2011, our sales revenue from trading activities decreased by 17% as loss of vendors. A loss of a substantial vendor or substantial number of our other vendors and/or our competing with them would have a material adverse effect on our revenues from trading activities. Risks Relating To the Company Itself; Control By T.C. Leung; Potential Conflict Of Interests. T.C. Leung, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, as a practical matter, is able to nominate and cause the election of all the members of the Company’s Board of Directors, control the appointment of its officers and the day-to-day affairs and management of the Company. As a consequence, Mr. Leung can have the Company managed in a manner that would be in his own interests and not in the interests of the other shareholders of the Company. See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions” and Item 6. “ Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” 11 Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation In The British Virgin Islands; Rights Of Shareholders Not As Extensive As In U.S. Corporations. Principles of British Virgin Islands (“BVI”) corporate law relating to such matters as the validity of the Company procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of the Company’s shareholders may differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many United States jurisdictions. Under United States law, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. United States shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders in a United States jurisdiction and executive compensation which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. The BVI law protecting the interests of the minority shareholders is not as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. The shareholders of the Company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Company’s Board of Directors, and may have more limited rights, than they might have as shareholders of a company incorporated in many United States jurisdictions. Anti-Takeover Provisions. The Company has 5,000,000 shares of “blank check preferred stock” authorized. The “blank check preferred stock” is intended to strengthen the Company’s ability to resist an unsolicited takeover bid and may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. The Board of Directors has the right to fix the rights, terms and preferences at the time of issue of “blank check preferred stock” without further action by our shareholders. Uncertainty Of Enforcing United States Judgments. There is some uncertainty whether BVI courts would enforce judgments of the courts of the United States and of other foreign jurisdictions, or enforce actions brought in the BVI which are based upon the securities laws of the United States. A final monetary judgment obtained in the United States will be treated as a cause of action in itself by the BVI courts so that no retrial of the issues would be necessary, provided that material preconditions are met and the proceedings pursuant to which judgment was obtained were not contrary to the rules of natural justice. All of the Company’s directors and executive officers reside outside of the United States, service of process upon the Company and such persons may be difficult to effect in the United States upon all such directors and officers. All of the Company’s assets are and will be located outside of the United States, in Hong Kong and the PRC, and any judgment obtained in the United States may not be enforced in those jurisdictions. Hong Kong courts will not directly enforce against the Company or such persons judgments obtained in the United States. There is also substantial doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC of actions to enforce judgments of the United States’ courts arising out of or based on the ownership of the securities, including judgments arising out of or based on the civil liability provisions of United States federal or state securities laws or otherwise. See “— Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation in the British Virgin Islands; Rights of Shareholders not as Extensive as in U.S. Corporations.” Being A Foreign Private Issuer Exempts Us From Certain Securities And Exchange Commission (“Commission”) And NASDAQ QMX (“NASDAQ”) Requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). As such, with certain limitations, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: (1) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; (2) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (3) the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and (4) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. 12 Our Securities Must Continue To Meet Qualitative And Quantitative Listing Maintenance Criteria For NASDAQ: Recent Deficiency Cured. Our securities are quoted and traded on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet both the qualitative and quantitative criteria for continued quotation and trading of our securities on NASDAQ. One of NASDAQ’s listing requirements is the maintenance of a closing bid price of US$ 1.00 per share. During periods of time in 2008 and 2009 the Company was not in compliance with that requirement but NASDAQ had generally suspended that requirement and others due to market conditions and/or the US$1.00 per share bid price was not met for a sufficient period of time to cause a NASDAQ deficiency action. On September 20, 2011,the Company received a deficiency letter from NASDAQ that the Company was no longer in compliance with NASDAQ’s listing maintenance rule for failing to have a bid price of at least US$ 1.00 per share for the prior thirty trading days. In order to regain compliance, in January 2012, the Company effected a combination or reverse stock split of its issued Ordinary Shares. On February 1, 2012, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ advising that as the bid price for the Company’s Ordinary Shares had risen above US$ 1.00 for required period of time, the Company was in compliance with NASDAQ’s maintenance listing requirements. If we are unable to meet the continued quotation criteria of NASDAQ and are suspended from trading on these markets, our securities could possibly be traded in the over-the-counter market and be quoted in the so-called “pink sheets” or, if then available, the OTC Bulletin Board. In such an event, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or even obtain accurate quotations of, our securities. See “- We Are Also Required To Meet Certain, But Not All Corporate Governance Criteria Applicable to NASDAQ Listed Issuers.” We Are Also Required To Meet Certain, But Not All, Corporate Governance Criteria Applicable To NASDAQ Listed Issuers. Although, in the past, we have been able to satisfy corporate governance criteria applicable to NASDAQ, those criteria are difficult to comply with and include, among other things: (a) a heightened degree of independence of members of the board of directors with independent directors to, among other things: hold regular meetings among themselves only; (b) establishment of a code of conduct addressing compliance with laws; and (c) a limit on payments to independent directors and their family members (other than for services on the board of directors). These corporate governance requirements and a strict definition of “independent director” make it more difficult to find independent directors for our Board of Directors. There is intense competition for qualified independent directors, including those persons with accounting experience and financial statement acumen to serve on audit committees. We believe that continued compliance with the corporate governance requirements applicable to NASDAQ listed issuers may be difficult and increase our costs and expenses as the costs of finding and compensating independent directors escalate and the costs of administering their new powers and responsibilities is an added financial burden. If we are unable to attract and keep a sufficient number of independent directors willing to take on the responsibilities imposed by such rules on what we believe to be commercially reasonable terms, our securities may be delisted from NASDAQ. (See “-Being a ‘Controlled Company’ Exempts Us From Certain Other Corporate Governance Criteria Applicable to NASDAQ Listed Issuers.”) Being A “Controlled Company” Exempts Us From Certain Other Corporate Governance Criteria Applicable To NASDAQ Listed Issuers. As a result of T.C. Leung, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owning the majority voting power of our Ordinary Shares, we are a “controlled company” as that term is defined in rules and regulations applicable to NASDAQ listed issuers. As a “controlled company”, we are not required to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance criteria including, among other things, the requirements that the majority of our Board be independent directors, and their having the authority to approve director nominations and executive officer compensation. We Are Not Subject To Various Corporate Governance Measures, Which May Result In Shareholders Having Limited Protections. Recent Federal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), has resulted in the adoption of various corporate governance measures by securities exchanges and NASDAQ designed to promote the integrity of the corporate management and the securities markets. Being a “controlled company,” we are exempt from many, but not all, of those requirements. Furthermore, the absence of such practices with respect to our Company may leave our shareholders without protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. 13 We May Be Exposed To Potential Risks Relating To Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting. Pursuant to Section 404 of SOX, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 20-F. We expend significant resources in developing and maintaining the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by SOX, there is a risk that we will not maintain compliance with all of these requirements. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer and the market price of our shares could decline. The Market Price Of Our Securities Has Been Fluctuating Widely. During the past several years, the market price of our Ordinary Shares has fluctuated widely on occasion. Except for the price declines that the Company attributes to the current global economic downturn, the Company knows of no reason for these wide fluctuations. See Item 9.C- “Markets.” There Are Risks In Purchasing Low-Priced Securities. If our securities were to be suspended or delisted from NASDAQ, they could be subject to rules under the Exchange Act which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established clients and “accredited investors”. For transactions covered by such rules, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination of the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, such rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability to sell any of our securities in any secondary market that may develop for such securities. In the event our securities are no longer listed on NASDAQ or are not otherwise exempt from the provisions of the SEC’s “penny stock” rules, such rules may also affect the ability of broker-dealers and investors to sell our securities. There Is No Assurance Of A Continued Public Market For Our Securities. There can be no assurance that a trading market for our Ordinary Shares will continue. We May Be Considered To Be A Passive Foreign Investment Company For The 2011 Calendar Year And May Be A Passive Foreign Investment Company For Future Years, Which Would Result In Adverse U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences To U.S. Holders Of Our Ordinary Shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. income tax purposes, for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The annual PFIC determination to be made by a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares is an inherently factual determination and there is limited guidance regarding the application of the PFIC rules to specific situations. We currently hold a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents, and investments in PRC enterprises, and the value of our goodwill and other assets may be based in part on the market price of our ordinary shares, which has experienced significant fluctuations. Although the determination of PFIC status is subject to factual uncertainties because it depends upon the valuation of our ordinary shares, as well as our goodwill and other assets and income, we are uncertain if we would be considered to be a PFIC for 2011. In addition, as the determination of PFIC status is made on an annual basis and depends on variables over which we have limited control, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for 2012 or any future years. If we are a PFIC in any year, U.S. Holders will be subject to certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences, and are urged to consult with his or her tax advisor. See “Item 10 Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation.” If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and/or defend the matter, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a complete loss of your investment in us. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantial operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial reporting and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed China-based companies that have been the subject of such scrutiny has sharply decreased in value. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and/or SEC enforcement actions that are conducting internal and/or external investigations into the allegations. If we become the subject of any unwarranted scrutiny, even allegations that are not true, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend the Company. Such investigations or allegations will be costly and time-consuming and distract our management from our business plan and could result in our reputation being harmed and our stock price could decline as a result of such allegations, regardless of the truthfulness of the allegations. 14 