RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and operations involve numerous risks, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, which may affect future results and the market price of the Company’s Common Shares. The following discussion highlights all the material risks the Company faces. The Company’s Recent Reorganization Into a Foreign Invested Enterprise Has Required the Company’s Manufacturing Operations to Adapt to Rules and Regulations Applicable to Domestic Chinese Companies and That Previously Did Not Affect the Company. Since the Company commenced its manufacturing operations in China in 1991, the Company has conducted its operations in Long Hua, Shenzhen, China pursuant to various agreements entered into, primarily, between two of the Company’s subsidiaries and the Shenzhen City Baoan District Foreign Economic Development Head Company and its designees (collectively, the “BFDC”) (the agreements, collectively the “BFDC Agreements”). Under the BFDC Agreements, the BFDC was the party responsible for providing manufacturing facilities for the Company and for supplying workers to the Company. The Company paid the BFDC a management fee and certain other charges for the use of the facilities and the services of the workers. Because the Company’s manufacturing operations in Long Hua, Shenzhen, were conducted under the BFDC Agreements, its operations were not subject to many of the rules and regulations that would be imposed on entities that are considered under China law to be doing business in China (either as joint venture or as a wholly owned subsidiary organized in China). For example, the Company did not have to apply for permits or licenses in China or to register to do business in China and received beneficial treatment with respect to import/export taxes and duties. 3 The stated term of the BFDC Agreements continues until 2016. However, despite the stated term of the BFDC Agreements, in 2010, the Company received official governmental notice that the foregoing BFDC license structure of operations would no longer be permitted and that, accordingly, all foreign companies operating under that structure, including the Company’s two subsidiaries, would have to reorganize their operations by no later than June 30, 2012. As a result of the foregoing governmental decree, in 2011 the Company commenced a major reorganization to restructure its operations and corporate structure in China. As part of this reorganization, the Company (i) formed Nissin Metal and Plastic (Shenzhen) Company Limited (herein referred to as “Nissin PRC”), a new wholly-owned subsidiary that is now a registered company in the PRC, (ii) discontinued its operations under one of its two principal BFDC Agreements, and (iii) transferred the assets, equipment, employees and manufacturing operations of Nissin Precision Metal Manufacturing Limited (herein referred to as “Nissin HK”), one of its Hong Kong subsidiaries, to Nissin PRC. A foreign owned subsidiary, such as Nissin PRC, that is registered in China is commonly known as a “foreign invested enterprise” (a “FIE”), or as a “Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise” (a “WFOE”). As a new PRC registered WFOE, Nissin PRC is now permitted to hire its own employees, lease its own facilities, and distribute its products in China. However, unlike the Company’s prior arrangements under the BFDC Agreements, Nissin PRC now has to obtain and maintain its own permits and licenses, is subject to China’s income and business taxes, and is subject to the rules and regulations applicable to other PRC registered companies. Most of these new rules, permits and taxes previously did not apply to its operations in China under the BFDC Agreements. These new rules, regulations and taxes have made the operations of Nissin PRC more cumbersome and expensive. To date, the Company has managed to restructure the operations of its new PRC subsidiary in a manner that has enabled it to comply with the additional rules and regulations. However, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to continue to operate profitably through Nissin PRC and will be able to comply with future regulations and restrictions. The Transformation of the Operations of Nissin Precision Metal Manufacturing Limited Into a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Has Increased the Company’s Cost of Operations in Shenzhen, China, and Could Result in Substantial Additional Unexpected Costs. As part of the governmentally required conversion of the operations of Nissin HK into a WFOE, the Company’s Nissin PRC wholly-owned limited liability company is now a registered PRC company and is governed by the PRC’s company laws and regulations. The cost of conducting operations through Nissin PRC is substantially higher than the operating cost was for that enterprise when it operated under the BFDC Agreements. The regulations imposed on Nissin PRC have resulted in increased taxes and increased regulatory and accounting burdens. For example, Nissin PRC has to charge value added tax (“VAT”) on all of the products that its sells locally, and has to pay VAT on materials it purchases locally. Depending on the classification of products and/or materials not all of the VAT tax is refunded to Nissin PRC when it exports these products. As a result, the VAT increases the overall cost of those products. The Company, therefore, must either pass these increased costs on to its customers (which hurts the Company’s price competitiveness and its customer relations), or absorb the cost increases through smaller profit margins (which reduces the benefits of such sales to the Company). No assurance can be given that the cost of operating Nissin PRC as a WFOE will not continue to increase and will not further negatively affect the Company and its operations. 4 Termination of the BFDC Agreement with Hi-Lite Camera Company Limited Will Substantially Increase the Company’s Overall Cost of Operations in China. As described above, the Company was forced to convert its manufacturing business in Shenzhen, China, (Nissin HK) into a PRC registered company (Nissin PRC). However, despite the earlier edict, the second operating entity in Shenzhen, China, Hi-Lite Camera Company Limited (“Hi-Lite”), currently is still operating in Shenzhen under the existing BFDC Agreement because the authorities have not enforced the termination of the BFDC Agreements (although the BFDC Agreements for Hi-Lite were scheduled to be revoked on June 30, 2012, the governmental agencies have, to date, not yet revoked Hi-Lite’s BFDC Agreement). Accordingly, the Company plans to continue to operate Hi-Lite’s assembly operations in Shenzhen under its existing BFDC Agreement until those agreements are actually terminated. Hi-Lite’s continued operations in Shenzhen under the BFDC Agreement has allowed the assembly portion of the Company’s business in China to continue to operate at a lower cost. If, and when, Hi-Lite is required to terminate its operations under its BFDC Agreement, Hi-Lite will either have to convert into a WFOE or will have cease operations. The Company has decided that it will not convert Hi-Lite into a WFOE and, therefore, will terminate Hi-Lite’s operations once the BFDC Agreement is formally terminated. The operations of Hi-Lite could be terminated at any time, and the Company is unable to predict how long Hi-Lite will be able to continue to operate under its BFDC Agreement (which agreement will expire in any event in 2016). In order to reduce the expected impact of a termination of Hi-Lite under its BFDC Agreement, the Company has been (i) gradually winding down the operations of Hi-Lite and (ii) shifting some of its assembly operations to lower labor cost locations in Asia, such as Myanmar (see, “Item 4-Information on the Company/Strategic Realignment of Assembly Operations,” below). Should the government terminate Hi-Lite’s current operations before the Company has fully wound down Hi-Lite’s operations and/or shifted much of Hi-Lite’s assembly operations to the new Myanmar facility, the Company’s operations in Shenzhen could be materially negatively impacted. The termination of Hi-Lite’s operations in the near future could materially impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s Operations At Its Long Hua, Shenzhen, Facilities May Be Disrupted By Changes Made By The Landlord To The Leased Buildings. The Company’s current manufacturing facilities in Long Hua, Shenzhen, China, consist of approximately 261,000 square feet of space that are used for manufacturing and as dormitory facilities. These facilities are currently leased pursuant to several leases (the “Premises Leases”) that permit the Company to operate in various buildings until February 28, 2017. Commencing later this year, the landlord of the premises will rebuild one of the buildings that the Company has been using. Accordingly, the Company will have to move its manufacturing operations out of that buildings and relocate those operations into a temporary facility for one approximately year. The manufacturing operations will then move back into the rebuilt building when the construction is completed. The relocation of the operations later this year to the temporary facility, the operations conducted at the temporary facility, and the move into the new building approximately one year later, will disrupt the Company’s normal operations and may impact the Company’s ability to timely manufacture products for its customers. In addition, moving the plant and equipment will be costly and will require that the company incur additional expenses in refurbishing the temporary facilities. The cost and negative impact on the Company’s operations of these moves cannot currently be accurately estimated, but the impact on the Company’s operations and financial results could be material. 5 Changes in Labor Laws, Environmental Regulation, Safety Regulation and Business Practices, and Operating Costs in China, and in Shenzhen, China, in Particular, Have Significantly Increased the Costs and Risks of Doing Business. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Chinese government has during the past few years significantly changed and/or increased the enforcement of a number of laws affecting employees (including regulations regarding their salaries and benefits, labor unions, working conditions and overtime restrictions, and contract duration—in particular, requirements leading to lifelong employment). These regulations now require companies to make payments to up to six different employee benefit funds for each employee. For example, the Shenzhen municipal government recently issued that require businesses and employees to each make contributions, ranging from 5% to 20% of an employee’s salary, into a government housing fund. The obligation to make these contribution, while unpopular with both the companies and the employees, has significantly increased the Company’s cost of employment. In addition, the Chinese government has also changed or increased the enforcement of certain environment protection laws, which have restricted some common practices and/or increased the Company’s cost of operations. Economic development in China, particularly in Shenzhen, China, may be limited as well by other factors, such as the overburdened infrastructure, inadequate transportation, power, and water supplies. Certain parts of China, including the Company’s facilities in Long Hua, Shenzhen, have in the past experienced shortages of electricity and water, which could negatively affect the Company. The foregoing factors have increased the risks of doing business in China and have caused many companies to terminate their operations in Southern China and have caused most of the remaining companies operating in Shenzhen, China to restructure their operations. The foregoing changes in labor and other rules and regulations have adversely affected the Company’s recent financial results. No assurance can be given that other business changes will not be implemented that will further negatively affect the Company and that the Company will, in fact, be able to continue to operate and/or prosper under any new business or regulatory conditions. Changing Internal Fiscal, Regulatory and Political Changes Continue to Negatively Affect The Company’s Operations in China. The Company’s main manufacturing facilities are located in China. As a result, the Company’s operations and assets are subject to all of the political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China. Changes in policies by the Chinese government to its laws, regulations, or the interpretation thereof, the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on imports and sources of supply, currency re-valuations, or the expropriation of private enterprises, could materially adversely affect the Company. For example, the Chinese government has recently been imposing burdensome import regulations on companies, such as the Company, that heavily rely on imports of raw materials. While the Company has, to date, been able to continue its operations in China despite these changes, no assurance can be given that the increasing regulations and the more restrictive government policies will not, in the future, cause the Company’s operations to become financially untenable or otherwise materially affect its business, operations and financial condition. Upward Revaluation Of Renminbi Yuan Will Increase The Company’s Cost of Operations And Could Reduce Its Profitability. As a company whose manufacturing operations are entirely based in China and whose operating expenses in China are paid in RMB, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in the value of the renminbi yuan, or RMB, the local currency of China. Although the RMB’s value compared to the U.S. dollar fluctuated during the past few months, in general during the past four years the value of the yuan has consistently appreciated relative to the U.S. dollar. Since an increase in the value of the RMB results in an increase of the Company’s operating costs in China (when expressed in U.S. dollars), any future increases in the value of the RMB compared to the U.S. dollar will have a negative affect on the Company’s financial results. Should the RMB continue to appreciate in value compared to the U.S. dollar, the Company’s cost structure and pricing would change and could have a material negative effect on its operations, sales and financial results. 6 Increased Wages And Recent Changes In The China’s Labor Laws Increasingly Have a Material Negative Affect The Company’s Operations And Continue to Increase Its Operating Costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law and more strictly enforced certain existing labor laws. Those labor laws amended and formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. As a result, the Company has had to substantially increase the amount of salaries and benefits it pays to, or on behalf of its workers. These increases in labor costs have increased the Company’s operating costs, which increase the Company has not always been able to pass through to its customers. The Company’s attempt to increase its prices to reflect the increase in labor and other costs has strained its relations with certain of its principal customers and has caused some of its customers to transfer their business to other OEM manufacturers or to move the manufacturing needs to other countries. The changes in the labor laws have previously contributed to several labor strikes at the Company’s manufacturing facilities. No assurance can be given that the Company will not in the future be subject to additional labor cost increases or even labor strikes or other disruptions as a result of the labor issues caused by the new laws. The increased labor and related operating costs have resulted in a loss of customers and revenues for the Company. In part to reduce the cost of its workers in China, the Company has, during the past few years, been increasing the amount of automation and its use of robotics in its operations and has been attempting to move most of the Company’s labor intensive work to lower labor cost countries. However, the cost of acquiring and installing automation equipment is high, and the increases in productivity and the decreases in the cost of production that result from automation may not fully offset the increased labor costs. In order to partially offset the high labor costs in China, the Company has recently decided to acquire a 75% interest of a Myanmar company that operates an assembly facility in Myanmar (Burma), and the Company intends to gradually shift much of its labor intensive operations to that new facility. See, “The Company Faces Numerous Risks In Its Operations In Myanmar,” below. Uncertain Legal System and Application of Laws. The legal system of China is often unclear and is continually evolving, and currently there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. While China has a comprehensive system of laws, the application of these laws by the existing regional and local authorities is often in conflict and subject to inconsistent interpretation, implementation and enforcement. New laws and changes to existing laws occur quickly and sometimes unpredictably. As is the case with all businesses operating in China, the Company often is also required to comply with informal laws and trade practices imposed by local and regional administrators. Local taxes and other charges are levied depending on the local needs for tax revenues and may not be predictable or evenly applied. These local and regional taxes/charges and governmentally imposed business practices often affect the Company’s cost of doing business and require the Company to constantly modify its business methods to both comply with these local rules and to lessen the financial impact and operational interference of such policies. While the Company has, to date, been able to increase its compliance with the regulations and operate within the newly enforced rules and business practices, no assurance can be given that it will continue to be able to do so in the future. Should the local or regional governments or administrators impose new practices or levies that the Company cannot effectively respond to, or should the administrators continue to enforce more of those rules that they have not previously enforced, the Company’s operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. The Company’s ability to appeal many of the local and regionally imposed laws and regulations is limited, and the Company may not be able to seek adequate redress for laws that materially damage its business. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate laws do exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of that law. 7 Transactions Between The Company And Its Subsidiaries May Be Subject To Scrutiny By Various Tax Authorities And Could Expose The Company To Additional Taxes. The Company operates through various subsidiaries in various countries. These subsidiaries make inter-company purchases at various prices. Under China’s enterprise income tax law, all such inter-company transactions have to be made on an arm’s-length basis and are subject to scrutiny as transfer pricing transactions between related parties. Transactions between the various subsidiaries located inside and outside of China must also meet China’s transfer pricing documentation requirements that include the basis for determining pricing between the related entities, as well as the computation methodology. The Company could face material and adverse consequences if the Chinese tax authorities determine that transactions between the Company’s various subsidiaries do not represent arm’s-length pricing regulations and, therefore, that such transactions are deemed to be structured to avoid taxes. Such a determination could result in increased tax liabilities of the affected subsidiaries and potentially subject the Company to late payment interest and other penalties. The Company Is Attempting To Purchase A 75% Interest In A Myanmar Assembly Facility, Which Purchase May Not Be Approved. During the past year, the Company has successfully subcontracted some of its assembly work to a Myanmar-based company as a low-cost assembly facility for some of the Company’s products. The Company has decided to acquire a controlling stake in that entity and to gradually shift much of the Company’s product assembly and other labor intensive operations from Shenzhen, China, to that Myanmar entity. Accordingly, in June 2014 the Company acquired a 25% equity interest in the Myanmar entity. In addition, the Company is arranging to purchase an additional 50% equity interest (which purchase, if completed, would give the Company a 75% controlling interest in the Myanmar company after the purchase). The purchase of the additional 50% equity interest is subject to documentation between the parties and subject to regulatory and administrative approval by the Myanmar authorities. Because Myanmar has only recently commenced allowing foreign companies to own an interest in Myanmar companies, the purchase of the additional 50% controlling interest in the Myanmar company is subject to uncertainty. Accordingly, while the Company believes that it will ultimately receive the required approvals, no assurance can be give if, or when, the approvals will be obtained and if the Company will eventually become a 75% controlling owner of the Myanmar assembly facility. The Company Faces Numerous Risks In Its Operations In Myanmar. The Company has sold equipment to a Myanmar company and has provided that company with other resources specifically in order to enable the Myanmar company to assemble the Company’s products as part of the Company’s plan to shift much of its assembly operations to Myanmar. However, the operations in Myanmar will be subject to numerous risks associated with establishing and operating an assembly facility in an underdeveloped country such as Myanmar. These risks include the lack of infrastructure, uncertain rules and regulations, unpredictable access to utilities (including electricity), cultural and political issues with local governmental authorities, and the lack of international financing expertise. The operations in Myanmar will also be subject to the currency risks associated with the Myanmar Kyat (MMK), the official currency of that country. Myanmar recently permitted the exchange rate of the Kyat into the U.S. dollar to fluctuate. Such currency fluctuations could affect the operations in Myanmar, which would impact the Company’s plan to relocate some of its assembly functions to the Myanmar facility. No assurance can be given that unfavorable currency fluctuations will not occur in the future. 8 The Company’s Customers May Not Permit Their Products To Be Manufactured In Myanmar, Which Would Negatively Affect The Company’s Plans To Move Much Of Its Assembly Operations To Myanmar. Following decades of authoritarian rule, Myanmar recently enacted various political and economic reforms that have made it possible for foreign businesses to own an interest in a Myanmar company. In addition, the U.S. and European Union recently lifted trade sanctions with Myanmar. As a result, a number of international and other enterprises have started acquiring interests in businesses in Myanmar. The Company is attempting to acquire a controlling interest in a Myanmar company, which company the Company intends to use as a low cost product assembly facility. Shifting much of its assembly work from the higher cost facilities in China to the lower cost facility in Myanmar is part of the Company’s business plan to increase its competitiveness in the OEM marketplace. However, the Company will not be able to shift its assembly operations from Shenzhen, China, to Yangon, Myanmar, without the prior approval of its customers. To date, two of the Company’s customers have permitted some of the assembly work on their products to be subcontracted to the Myanmar assembly facility. However, other customers have been reluctant to permit the Company to outsource the manufacture of their products to the Myanmar assembly facility because of quality control concerns and, to a lesser extent, because of political and public relations issues. Unless more of the Company’s customers allow the Company to shift the assembly of products to Myanmar, the Company’s goal of offsetting its high costs of assembly in China will not be successful. While the Myanmar operations have, to date, met the expectations of the Company’s and two of its customers, no assurance can be given that enough assembly work can be subcontracted to Myanmar in order to significantly lower the Company’s costs and to improve its price competitiveness. Political Or Trade Controversies Between China And The United States Could Harm The Company’s Operating Results Or Depress The Company’s Stock Price. Relations between the U.S. and China have during the past few years been strained as a result of numerous events that have threatened the business relations between the countries. These strains on U.S./China relations could affect the ability of foreign companies listed on U.S. stock markets, such as the Company, from operating in China. Also, strains between the U.S. and China could interfere with the ability of company’s manufacturing in China from engaging in business with, or selling to the U.S. or U.S. companies. Any disruption of the current trade relations with the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. No assurance can be given that these and any other future controversies will not change the status quo involving peaceful trade relations between the U.S. and China, or that the Company’s business and operations in China will not be materially and adversely affected. Even if trade relations between the U.S. and China are not affected by political difficulties between the two countries, such political friction could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the Company’s Common Shares. 9 China’s Political Issues With Japan Could Harm The Company’s Operations. As a result of the dispute between Japan and China (such as the on-going dispute over the Senkaku/Diaoyu island chain), the business environment has deteriorated for companies in China that do business with Japan or otherwise appear to be connected to Japan. Since the name of the Company’s principal subsidiary in China is a Japanese name (“Nissin”), and possibly because that subsidiary produces products for Japanese customers, the Company believes that its subsidiary has been subject to heightened scrutiny by Chinese authorities and may have lead to the recent imposition of import custom duties. Accordingly, political strains between China and Japan may negatively impact the Company on-going operations in China. Labor Shortages and Turnover. One of the principal economic advantages of locating the Company’s operations in China has been the availability of low cost labor. Due to the enormous growth in manufacturing in China and the effects of China’s one-child policy, the Company has recently experienced difficulty in filling its labor needs. In addition to the recently developing tight labor market, the Company has also been affected by cyclical trends and other shortages in labor supply. For approximately two months each year, there are severe labor shortages in China as a result of the Chinese New Year during which time the Company follows the customary practice at its factory complex to grant its employees home leave and to, therefore, temporarily discontinuing operations. Any material or prolonged shortage of labor would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. As a result of the high cost of labor, the changing nature of the labor market, and the departure of employees that typically occurs during the Chinese New Year, recently almost all of the Company’s assembly workers have to be replaced every year. The cost of hiring and training new employees adds to the Company’s overall cost of operations. The Recently Imposed Import Duty Deposits May Negatively Affect The Company’s Liquidity. The local authorities in China in 2012 imposed a “Customs License Deposit” on the Company for the import of raw materials, including sheet metal. As a result, the Company had to deposit approximately $2,062,000 as a refundable payment with the Chinese Customs Department based on its import contracts for raw materials. These deposits were refundable, and the Chinese Customs Department has commenced releasing these funds (approximately $713,000 is still held by the Chinese Customs Department as of June 27, 2014, which funds are, however, expected to be released later during the current fiscal year as the raw material import contracts expire). Based on the Company’s current size and business activity, the Company anticipates that additional custom deposits (in an amount currently estimated to be approximately $500,000) will have to be made to the Chinese Customs Department in the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2015. These customs deposits serve as guarantee to make sure that the Company re-exports all imported materials within a one-year period. The Chinese Customs Department could, however, demand much larger deposits at any time if the custom department is not satisfied that the Company will perform its export obligations. Should the Chinese Customs Department delay the release of the remaining deposits, or should new, larger deposits be required, the Company’s liquidity could be negatively affected while its cash is held by the Chinese Customs Department. 10 The Global Economic Uncertainty and Weakness Has Adversely Affected The Company’s Business And, Until Global Economic Conditions Improve, Is Expected To Continue To Do So. Most of the Company’s customers are international companies that operate globally or serve global markets. As a result, the Company’s customers have been affected by the unstable global financial and credit markets and by the recent downturn in many economies. The business environment for many of the Company’s customers has been challenging as a consequence of adverse worldwide economic conditions. In particular, there has been an erosion of global consumer confidence from concerns over declining asset values, price instability, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. The instability of the markets and weakness of the global economy has adversely affected, and could continue to affect adversely, the demand for the Company’s customers’ products, the amount and timing of their orders, the financial strength of those customers and the Company’s suppliers, and/or the Company’s suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations. This global economic uncertainty is expected to continue to affect the Company’s operations, earnings and financial condition. The instability also affects the prices at which the Company can sell its products, which in turn adversely affects the Company’s earnings and financial condition and its relations with its customers. The Company Is Financially Dependent On A Few Major Customers. During the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 the Company’s aggregate sales to its three largest customers accounted for approximately 56.6% and 56.7% of net sales respectively. While the Company believes that there are material benefits to limiting its customer base to a few, large, well-established and financially strong customers, having fewer customers also has significant risks. The Company’s success will depend to a significant extent on maintaining its major customers and on the success achieved by its major customers. The Company could be materially adversely affected if it loses any major customers or if the business and operations of its major customers decreases. For example, a major customer recently informed the Company that a major portion of the products that the Company manufactured for that customer would be transferred to another, lower cost OEM. If the Company’s other current customers do not increase the amount of products that they purchase from the Company, the departure of this customer will result in a reduction in revenues in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015. While the Company has in the past been able to replace major customers, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to do so in the future. Since most of the Company’s sales transactions with its customers are based on purchase orders received by the Company from time to time, the Company is to a large extent dependent upon continuously receiving new purchase orders for its future sales. As a result, the amount of sales to these customers fluctuates from time to time. In addition, with fewer, larger customers, the Company’s operations are more significantly impacted by a delay or reduction of any anticipated purchase orders or by the loss of any one or more of its major customers. In addition to its increasing dependence on generating revenues from fewer, larger customers, the Company’s risk exposure to the collection of its accounts receivable likewise is increasing as the size of receivables from individual clients increases. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales to its major customers are made on credit, which exposes the Company to the risk of significant revenue loss if a major customer is unable to honor its credit obligations to the Company. Any material delay in being paid by its larger customers, or any default by a major customer on its obligations to the Company would significantly and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, accounts receivable from the three customers with the largest receivable balances at year-end represented, in the aggregate, 54.1% and 62.2% of the total outstanding receivables, respectively. 11 The Company Is Highly Dependent Upon Its Executive Officers And Its Other Managers. The Company is highly dependent upon Roland Kohl, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and its other officers and managers. Although the Company has signed employment contracts with Mr. Kohl and many of its other key officers/managers, no assurance can be given that those employees will remain with the Company during the terms of their employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of the foregoing persons would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. Mr. Kohl’s new employment agreement expires in March 2019. The Company owns a $2,000,000 life insurance policy issued to insure the Company’s in the event of Mr. Kohl’s death. The Company Must Continuously Adapt Its Operations To Suit Its Customers Needs, Or Else It Will Lose Customers. The Company’s customers are continuously changing the mix of their products. Accordingly, the Company must continuously adapt its manufacturing abilities to suit the needs of its customers. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to detect and correctly react to future changes in the needs of its principal customers, or that its investments in equipment and machinery made in anticipation of such changes will result in a positive return. Should the Company fail to react, or to incorrectly react to changes in the needs of its current or future customers, its business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company Faces Significant Competition From Numerous Larger, Better Capitalized, and International Competitors. The Company competes against numerous manufacturers for all of its current products. Such competition arises from both third party manufacturers and from the in–house manufacturing capabilities of existing customers. To a large extent, the Company competes in its Original Equipment Manufacturing (“OEM”) business on the basis of quality, price, service, and the ability to deliver products on a reliable basis. Due to intense price competition, the Company has at various times during the past few years had to reduce its price and its operating margins. In addition, because of significant competition and the availability of alternate OEM suppliers for the Company’s customers, the Company has, at times, been unable to pass through significant materials cost increases. This has led to lower gross margins and even to net losses in some product lines. During the past few years, the Company has also lost manufacturing contracts because of its price increases, which losses have resulted in lower net sales. As a result of these factors, the Company will have to continue to operate at narrow gross profit margins, which could jeopardize the Company’s financial position. 12 Since locating its facilities in Shenzhen, China, in 1991, the Company has been able to compete with other manufacturers based on its cost of operations in Shenzhen, the availability of a large labor pool, its favorable tax status, and its convenient access to Hong Kong’s shipping port and business/banking facilities. However, since the Company first moved to Shenzhen as one of the first manufacturers in that locality, many other manufacturers have re-located or established new facilities in Shenzhen, and the Company’s competitive advantage has been significantly diminished. In addition, many of the larger, international companies that have established competing facilities in Shenzhen have also established manufacturing facilities in other low-cost manufacturing locations, many located at sites outside of China, which have given those competitors the ability to shift their manufacturing to those locations whenever costs at those other locations are cheaper than in Shenzhen. Accordingly, the Company has indirectly been competing against both the competitors in Shenzhen as well as the other facilities outside of China. Recent events in China have significantly increased the cost of operating in China, including changes in labor laws, changes in environmental regulations and in the enforcement of such regulations, increases in safety regulations, and a general increase in the cost of doing business have all collectively significantly eroded the advantages of operating in China. No assurance can be given that the Company will continue to be able to compete effectively against companies outside of China in its principal businesses. Dependence on the Long Hua, Shenzhen, China, Factory Complex. Although the Company has, in the recent past, operated as many as four factories in China, the Company has closed or sold three of its other facilities and now operates its sole manufacturing facility in Long Hua, Shenzhen. Although the Company has successfully subcontracted a Myanmar company for the assembly of some of the Company’s products, the Company currently is, and will continue to be heavily dependent upon its Long Hua, Shenzhen facility. The loss of this facility, or any material disruption of its operations at this facility, would be costly, would materially disrupt the Company’s overall operations, and would have a material and adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company currently maintains fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $8,800,000 covering its stock in trade goods and merchandize, furniture and equipment in China. The scope of the insurance coverage, and the amount of financial coverage provided by this insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or, the loss of, all or material portions of the factory complex due to fire, severe weather, flood, or other act of God or cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, business and prospects. Fluctuation in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. Because the Company engages in international trade, the Company is subject to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Because of the Company’s operations are based primarily in the PRC and Hong Kong, but most its customers are located outside of these markets (primarily in Europe), the Company makes and/or receives payments in various currencies (including U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, RMB and Euros). As a result, the Company is exposed to the risks associated with possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations. For example, the Company realized currency exchange losses of $31,000 and $27,000 in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. However, these currency fluctuations have in the past been more significant and have, in those prior years, materially affected the Company’s financial results. Notwithstanding these currency conversion rate fluctuations, the Company does not attempt to hedge its currency exchange risks and, therefore, will continue to experience certain gains or losses due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company does attempt to limit its currency exchange rate exposure in certain of its OEM contracts through contractual provisions, which may limit, though not eliminate, these currency risks. In addition, the Company has an understanding with many of its larger European customers that the Company’s quoted prices will be periodically adjusted to reflect currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company is also attempting to limit its exposure to currency fluctuations with its non-U.S. based customers by increasingly asking for payment in U.S. dollars. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that the Company will not suffer future currency exchange rate losses that will materially impact the Company’s financial results and condition. 13 Significant Worldwide Political, Economic, Legal And Other Risks Related To International Operations. The Company is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, has administrative offices for its subsidiaries in Hong Kong, and has all of its manufacturing facilities in China. The Company sells its products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Asia and Europe. As a result, its operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including changes in international and domestic customs regulations, changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation, changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies, difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations, and wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict the Company’s ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of the Company’s operations in that region. Acquisitions Or Strategic Investments, Including The Recent Expansion Into Myanmar (Burma), May Not Be Successful And May Harm The Company’s Operating Results. As part of its strategy, the Company may acquire or enter into strategic relationships with other enterprises in China and possibly elsewhere (including elsewhere in Asia or even in North or Central America). For example, in June 2014 the Company acquired a 25% interest in a Myanmar company that, until the acquisition, acted as an assembly subcontractor of the Company. The Company also is attempting to purchase an additional 50% controlling interest in the Myanmar entity. Such acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results because of: ·The assumption of unknown liabilities, including employee obligations. Although the Company normally conducts extensive legal and accounting due diligence in connection with its acquisitions, there are many liabilities that cannot be discovered, and which liabilities could be material. ·The Company could incur significant expenses related to bringing the financial, accounting and internal control procedures of the acquired business into compliance with U.S. GAAP financial accounting standards and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. ·The Company’s operating results could be impaired as a result of restructuring or impairment charges related to amortization expenses associated with intangible assets. ·The Company could experience significant difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers’ products and businesses with its operations. ·Future acquisitions could divert the Company’s capital and management’s attention to other business concerns. 14 ·The Company may not be able to hire the key employees necessary to manage or staff the acquired enterprise operations. Certain Legal Consequences of Incorporation in the British Virgin Islands. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, and its corporate affairs are governed by its Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association and by the BVI Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of the Company’s management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of the Company’s shareholders differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most U.S. jurisdictions. Thus, the public shareholders of the Company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions of the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, there is doubt that the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. Anti-Takeover Provisions Of The Company’s Amended Articles Of Association Could Delay Or Prevent A Change Of Control That The Shareholders May Favor. Article 61 of the Company’s Articles of Association was amended in June 2013 to divide the Board of Directors into three classes, with the directors of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms. This staggered board may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that the shareholders may consider favorable, or may impede the ability of the holders of our common shares to change the Company’s management. In addition, as permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands and the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Memorandum and Articles of Association may be amended by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval provided that a majority of the independent directors do not vote against the amendment. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock or to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). The Board’s ability to amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval, including its ability to create and issue preference shares, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the then current market price. It May be Difficult to Serve the Company with Legal Process or Enforce Judgments Against the Company’s Management or the Company. The Company is a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. Substantially, all of the Company’s assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of the Company’s directors and all of its executive officers reside outside of the U.S. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon the Company’s directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. 15 No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if various conditions are met, including the condition that the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter, the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands, the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands, and the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Volatility Of Market Price Of the Company’s Shares. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of the Company’s Common Shares has been and could continue to be subject to material fluctuations in response to quarter to quarter variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Certain events, such as the issuance of Common Shares upon the exercise of outstanding stock options of the Company could also adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the Company’s securities. Exemptions Under The Exchange Act As A Foreign Private Issuer. The Company is a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). As such, and though its Common Shares are registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, it is exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to United States public companies including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within six months or less), and the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. In addition, certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 either do not apply to the Company or the implementation of the provisions has been deferred. Because of the exemptions under the Exchange Act and Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign private issuers, shareholders of the Company are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. 16 The Audit Report Included In This Annual Report Are Prepared By Auditors Who Are Not Inspected By The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board And, As Such, You Are Deprived Of The Benefits Of Such Inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the Peoples' Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceeding instituted by the SEC against five Mainland China-based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statement being determined to not be in compliance with the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceeding under Rule 102 (e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 against the Mainland Chinese affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms (including the Mainland affiliate of our auditors ), and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in Mainland China are not in a position to lawfully produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings equally affect all audit firms based in Mainland China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. 17 In January 2014, the administrative judge reached a decision (the “Initial Decision”) that the “big four” accounting firms in Mainland China should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. Although, the principal auditor of our financial statements is Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in Hong Kong, which is not subject to the proceedings or the foregoing Initial Decision, our auditors use their Mainland China affiliate to assist in the auditing of the Mainland China components of our operations. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a petition for review of the Initial Decision and pending that review, the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC will review the Initial Decision and determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, the appropriate remedy to be placed on those audit firms. Once such an order is issued, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major Mainland China operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our Common Shares may be adversity affected. Failure To Establish And Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Could Have A Material And Adverse Effect On The Accuracy In Reporting Our Financial Results Or Preventing Fraud. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. Because of the difficulty in hiring and keeping highly qualified accounting personnel and the high cost of maintaining proper internal controls, management may not be able to conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is fully effective. These possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which in turn could harm the Company’s business and negatively impact the trading price of the Company’s common shares. In addition, if the Company does acquire a controlling interest in its Myanmar subcontractor, that Myanmar company would become a subsidiary of the Company for SEC and accounting purposes. As such, the Company will have to implement new financial controls and systems at the Myanmar subsidiary for its financial reporting and Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 compliance purposes. The cost of implementing and maintaining these systems could be substantial. Concentration of Share Ownership Allows Management to Substantially Influence the Outcome of Matters Requiring Shareholder Approval. As of June 30, 2014, members of the Company’s senior management and Board of Directors collectively beneficially owned approximately 23.5% of the Company’s outstanding Common Shares. As a result, if they were to act together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by the shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, or causing a change in control of the Company that may not be favored by our other shareholders. 18 While The Company Has In The Past Paid Dividends At Various Times, No Assurance Can Be Given That The Company Will Declare Or Pay Cash Dividends In The Future. The Company attempts to pay a cash dividend at least once a year to all holders of its Common Shares, subject to its profitability and cash position. The Company paid four dividends in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 (a dividend of $0.03 per share was paid on April 15, 2013, and a dividend of $0.04 per share was paid October 9, 2013, on December 24, 2013, and on March 28, 2014). Dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend upon, among other things, the Company’s net profit after taxes, the anticipated future earnings of the Company, the success of the Company’s business activities, the Company’s capital requirements, and the general financial conditions of the Company. Although it is the Company’s intention to pay dividends during profitable fiscal years, no assurance can be given that the Company will, in fact, pay any dividends in the future even if its has a profitable year or is otherwise capable of doing so. If the Company does not pay a cash dividend, the Company’s shareholders will not realize a return on their investment in the Common Shares except to the extent of any appreciation in the value of the Common Shares. Item 