D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our shares. Set forth below are the most significant risks, as identified by our management, but we may also face risks in the future that are not presently foreseen. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by these and other risks. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report, before making any investment decision regarding our company. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the near future. We incurred net losses of $3.8 million in 2006, net income of $2.9 million in 2007 and net losses of $2.0 million in 2008. Although we have been profitable in the recent past, we may not be profitable or meet the level of expectations of the investment community in the near future. This could have a material adverse impact on our share price. Even if we achieve profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses. In addition, our operating results may be adversely affected by timing of sales of our products or a shift in our mix of products and services. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues and the loss of any one major customer will decrease our revenues. A large portion of our revenues is derived from substantial orders placed by a relatively small number of customers. Our revenues from our five largest customers represented 42% of our total revenues in 2006, 38% of our total revenues in 2007 and 49% of our total revenue in 2008. Due to our dependence on a small number of customers and large orders, if expected orders are not received, or orders are postponed, reduced or cancelled, our revenues and profitability will be significantly reduced. 8 The global economic recession could cause slowdown and cancellations of significant sales of our products and services, which could seriously harm our operating results. The second half of 2008 was affected by the global economic slowdown that exacerbated into a severe global recession. Our customers, vendors as well as partners and suppliers are affected by this recession in manner that affected us in a number of ways, including the following: · we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, longer sales cycles; · some of our customers and vendors have cancelled and may cancel in the future their purchase plans and new projects; · strong pressure on the price of our products and services; and · some of our customers are undergoing, and may undergo in the future, financial difficulties which may result in a longer period for collection of payments owed to us and, in certain cases, even seeking to avoid payments to us altogether. The economic outlook for 2009 has worsened significantly, including in our largest markets, North America and Europe, and the global economic recession appears set to continue for some time. However, we are currently unable to predict how long the recession will last or the full extent of its effects on our operating results and financial condition. In the past few years, the communications service provider industry has undergone a period of consolidation. Consolidation of the service providers, some of which are our customers, may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. Our customers are concentrated in the public carrier communications market. The communications service provider industry is undergoing a period of consolidation and mergers. Examples of this trend are AT&T mergers with SBC (November 2005), Bellsouth (December 2006) and Dobson (July 2007).Consolidation and mergers of the providers will result in less potential customers and less networks to monitor and manage. Furthermore, the resulting consolidation and merger of our prospective customers may delay or cause cancellations of significant sales of our products, which could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, in the past four years, we have identified a trend of consolidation and acquisition in our competitors in the global operation support, or OSS market. Examples of this trend are the IBM acquisition of Micromuse (December 2005) and of Vallent (December 2006).This trend has resulted in stronger competition that threatens our market positioning. We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. Although we currently believe that we have sufficient capital to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months, we may need to raise additional capital in the future. For example, if our cash flows are less than expected, we may need to raise additional funds to respond to unforeseen technological or marketing hurdles, satisfy unforeseen liabilities, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. We may not be able to obtain funds at the time or times needed on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders would be diluted. Our future operating results depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and if these products do not continue to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. Revenues from licensing, servicing and supporting our Netrac suite of products account for a substantial majority of our total revenues. Our future operating results will depend significantly on the continued market acceptance of our Netrac suite of products, and improvements to these products. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If they lose acceptance, we may have reduced revenues. This makes it difficult to rely on future revenues from these products. Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods over which we may not have control. Prospective users of our products generally must make a significant commitment of resources. Sales cycles of our products are often lengthy, generally ranging from 6 to 24 months. Our sales process is often subject to delays caused by lengthy approval processes that usually accompany significant expenditures. In addition, the time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally lasts for 6 to 24 months. The implementation process may also be subject to delay. We cannot control such delays and cannot control the timing of sales cycles or our sales revenue, especially in light of the current global economic recession, which has lengthened our sales cycles. 9 Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological changes and emerging industry standards . The market for our products is characterized by: • emergence of new types of networks and services; • changing services and technologies; • evolving industry standards; • changing regulatory environments; and • changes in communications service providers’ requirements. In addition, the introduction of new technologies and new industry standards and practices can render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate and we could lose market acceptance and have reduced related revenues. Accordingly, our financial performance and growth is dependent on our ability to, among other things: • enhance and improve our existing products; • develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, including next-generation and third-generation (3G) networks; • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; • incorporate new technologies and new infrastructures; and • develop new interfaces between our products and complimentary products. We may not be successful at these tasks. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products and features. In addition, our new products and features may not meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve market acceptance. Although we continue to invest in improving our products and solutions, we cannot assure you that they will receive market acceptance. Thus, our future operating results depend on the market acceptance of our existing and new products and services, and if these investments do not achieve market acceptance, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. We depend on strategic relationships and our revenues may be reduced if such relationships are not successful. In addition, our future growth will depend in part on our ability to form new strategic relationships or exploit indirect sales channels that will market our products effectively. Our sales strategy includes direct sales to customers as well as sales through original equipment manufacturers, system integrators and other indirect channels for sales and support of our products. Specifically, we rely on strategic relationships with system integrators and hardware vendors to sell our products and services and these relationships may account for a larger portion of our revenues in the future. These parties are not obligated to sell any of our products. Any failure of these relationships to market our products effectively or generate significant revenues for us, a termination of any of these relationships, or if we are unable to form additional strategic alliances in the future that will prove beneficial to us, could harm our operations and profitability. 10 Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired Telesens LLC, or Telesens, a Ukraine-based software house, in January 2008, and we may continue to make acquisitions and/or invest in new technologies in the future. The process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation, the failure of the acquired business to further our strategies, the inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies, operations, services and corporate culture of the acquired business or otherwise realize anticipated synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis, and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. Due to our new operation in Ukraine we may be exposed to unknown risks. Following the acquisition of Telesens, our subsidiary in Ukraine, we are engaged in operational, financial and legal activities in Ukraine and in the CIS market. This environment is not familiar to us and we may not be able to adjust our operations to this new market. This may expose us to unknown risks. Our internal investigation in connection with the acquisition of Telesens revealed improper conduct by one of our RBU managers. As a result, our business and reputation may be harmed. In addition, we may not be able to prevent similar events in the future. Our Audit Committee completed an internal investigation that revealed that one of our RBU (Region Business Unit) managers, who is also the son of our Chairman and CEO, received improper commissions from the former key shareholder of Telesens (who is also the general manager of Telesens) in connection with our acquisition of Telesens in January 2008. While we concluded that the results of the internal investigation and related procedures do not have any impact on our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2008 or any other period, and that the investigation did not reveal any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our business and reputation may be harmed. In addition, at the recommendation of our Audit Committee, we are in the process of taking a number of steps designed to improve and safeguard against the recurrence of improper conduct. These steps include clarifying the existing prohibition in our Code of Ethics on receiving improper personal gain. However, the effectiveness of these remedial measures will not be ultimately known until we have had an opportunity to establish a history with them. If we are unable to implement additional effective controls, there is a risk that we may not be able to prevent or detect improper personal gains that could harm our business and reputation, and, in certain events, such as when an improper personal gain affected our agreement with third parties, even cause a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. For additional details, see “Item 8A – Legal Proceedings – Internal Investigation.” We may not be successful in our ongoing dispute with the former shareholders of Telesens. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement with the shareholders of Telesens, the aggregate purchase price is up to $2.7 million, subject to downward adjustments related to certain performance parameters, including Telesens’ actual 2007 annual turnover. The purchase price was to be paid by us in cash in three installments, as follows: (1) the first payment, of $1.0 million, was paid at closing; (2) 70.0% of the balance of the purchase price (subject to the relevant deductions) was supposed to be paid in February 2009; and (3) the remainder is scheduled to be paid in February 2010. In early 2009, we engaged in discussions with Mr. Rubin, one of the selling shareholders of Telesens, with respect to our demand, in accordance with the purchase agreement, to make downward adjustments to the purchase price based on the performance parameters of Telesnes. In light of, among others, the objection of the selling shareholders to our demands and the internal investigation that was ongoing at the time, we have determined to hold the payment of the second installment, scheduled for February 2009, until resolution of these matters. On March 21, 2009, Mr. Rubin notified us that the selling shareholders initiated legal proceedings against us in Ukraine with respect to the purchase agreement. According to Mr. Rubin’s notice, the lawsuit alleges, among others, that we have breached the purchase agreement by not making the timely and full payment of the second installment. Accordingly, the plaintiffs seek to rescind the transaction, such that the selling shareholders will receive their shares of Telesens, and seek additional damages of approximately $500,000. If and when we are served with the lawsuit, we intend to vigorously defend our position. However, given the preliminary stage of this matter, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time. In the event of an unfavorable resolution, we may be required to pay damages and other costs which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 We rely on revenue from our international operations, and if we cannot overcome inherent risks, these operations will not succeed. Our current customers are located in about 30 countries worldwide and we are seeking to expand into other markets. We expect our revenues from international sales to continue to account for a large portion of our total revenues in the future. However, we may not be able to sustain or increase revenues derived from our international operations. In addition, as we conduct business globally, our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations generally, and time and costs spent on staffing and managing operations in markets from which we do not derive substantial revenue but still need to maintain a presence; • the impact of possible recessionary environments in certain economies, including the current global economic recession; • changes in regulatory requirements, including a slowdown in the rate of privatization of communications service providers; • difficulties in enforcing our rights in various jurisdictions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the conversion of currencies or the repatriation of earnings; • exchange ratres fluctuations; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • economic and political instability. We may not be able to effectively manage these risks and these risks may lead to disputes with our customers and suppliers. This may have an adverse effect on our operational margins. Government regulatory policies in the communications industry may harm our business. Government regulatory policies have had a major impact on our ability to attract and retain customers. For example, regulatory authorities have overseen the pricing of new and existing communications services, which, in turn, has impacted our customers’ abilities to make significant capital expenditures. The enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations could inhibit or prevent our customers from purchasing our products. We occasionally perform a large amount of our obligations to customers before we receive payment, and in some instances we commence our performance before we have concluded a written agreement with a customer, which forces us to finance our performance and risk nonpayment. We occasionally perform a large amount of our obligations to customers before receiving payment. In some instances, we incur certain expenses prior to concluding a written agreement with a customer. Because of this, we must finance the costs of performing under our customer agreements, and risk nonpayment. Although our customers are generally large companies, they may not pay our fees when due. Payment of our fees is generally not secured or guaranteed. Delayed payment or failure to receive payment may strain our finances. 12 Some of our customers may terminate their agreements with us after we have partially performed under such agreements, and in such event, we may have difficulty recovering our costs and may lose future revenues. In order to continue to sell our products in a competitive industry, we have often been required to agree to provisions in our contracts with customers that generally make it easier for customers to terminate their agreements with us at various stages of performance, with payments covering only the products and services actually provided by us up to the date of termination. Our performance often largely comprises services and customized products which we cannot recover and resell. As a result, if any of our customers terminate their agreements with us, we may have difficulty recovering our costs relating to such services and customized products that were not reimbursed by our customers up to the date of any termination. In such event, we may have reduced future revenues. We may not be able to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets for our products. Market consolidation has led to the strengthened position of fewer carrier customers on one hand and fewer OSS vendors on the other hand. The markets for our products are very competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our current and prospective competitors offer a variety of solutions to address the markets for network management system, or NMS, OSS, and business support system, or BSS. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales, customer support, marketing and other resources and longer operating histories than we have. Many also have greater name recognition and a larger installed base of their products and technologies. Any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and may develop products comparable or superior to ours. In addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by the recent trend towards consolidation amongst our competitors. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our revenues and profitability may be reduced. Our current and potential competitors include: • organizations’ information technology, or IT, departments, some of which may be our customers or prospective customers, that provide or may attempt to develop NMS, OSS and BSS applications for their particular internal needs; • providers of NMS, OSS and BSS, such as IBM, which owns Micromuse and Vallent, Hewlett-Packard, Infovista, and Telecordia Technology; • communications equipment vendors, such as Ericsson, Nokia and Alcatel Lucent; • systems integrators who provide programming services to develop customer-specific applications, such as LogicaCMG, Accenture, Cap Gemini and IBM Global Services; and • managed service providers, such as Alcatel, Nokia and Ericsson, that offer their customers management services on top of their networks rather than building their own network operation center, or NOC, and purchasing an independent management system. Currency fluctuations could have an impact on our revenues and profitability. A portion of our revenues and expenses are in currencies other than U.S. dollars, such as the NIS and the Euro. Since our financial results are measured in dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar could have an impact on our revenues and profitability. Our results could also be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS, Euro or other currencies. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from future currency fluctuations. If we are unable to retain and attract management and technical personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. The success of our business depends in large part on the continuing contributions of our management and technical personnel. If we are unable to retain several key people, this could cause a reduction in our efficiency and profitability, may harm perceptions of us in the investment community and may cause our stock price to decline. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel. Highly qualified technical personnel are in demand in Israel, and competition for such personnel is generally intense. If we are not able to attract and retain such personnel when and as needed, our business could be harmed. 13 Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and we may lose our rights to it. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our proprietary software technology. We currently have only one registered patent. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: • the measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent others from misappropriating our technology or from independently developing or selling technology or products with features based on or similar to ours; • our customers that are given access to our intellectual property rights under rare circumstances, may infringe these rights; • our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, violated or circumvented and may not provide us with any competitive advantage; • any future litigation to protect our proprietary rights could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail; and • a determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. If we lose any of our rights to our proprietary technology, we may not be able to continue our business. We currently rely on software that we license from third parties, and we may in the future rely on software that we intend to license from third parties. If we fail to maintain these licenses, we may experience delays or reductions in our product shipments and have difficulty continuing our business. We rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. In the future, we may rely on additional software that we intend to license from third parties. Some of these third party software licensors are small or early-stage companies that are not as stable as larger and more established software licensors. Our third-party licensors that are larger and more established software licensors may impose on us stringent conditions to maintain our licenses and may unilaterally change the price and other terms of our licenses. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all or, if available, may infringe upon the proprietary rights of other parties. Our loss of or inability to maintain our existing software licenses or obtain future licenses could result in delays or reductions in our product shipments. These delays or reductions in shipments could cause a reduction in our revenues or profitability and could harm our business. Our technology may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and we may lose our rights to it. We rely on our proprietary software technology, including software that we license from third parties, to compete in our markets. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: • we expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps; • we may inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of other parties and other parties may assert infringement claims against us; • if we violate the intellectual property rights of other parties we may be required to modify our products or intellectual property or obtain a license to permit their continued use; • any future litigation to defend us against allegations that we have infringed the rights of others could result in substantial cost to us, even if we ultimately prevail or are entitled to indemnification from third parties in connection therewith; and • determination against us in any such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to other parties and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. 14 If we lose any of our rights to our proprietary technology, we may not be able to continue our business. Defects in our software products could reduce our revenues and harm our reputation. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex software products involve substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in products after they are licensed to customers. This could result in: • a delay in recognition or loss of revenues; • loss of market share; and • failure to achieve market acceptance. The complexities of the implementation of our products involve additional risks of performance failure and substantial delays. Because our customer base consists of a relatively limited number of users, the harm to our reputation that could result from product defects or implementation errors could be especially damaging. This could seriously harm our business. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our products contain software elements that utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures, including the General Public License. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products in the event they are inappropriately integrated. In the event that we have not, or do not in the future, properly integrate software that is subject to such licenses into our products, we may be required to disclose the source code of our own propriteray software to the public, which could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could, therefore, materially adversely affect our competitive advantage and impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to pay additional taxes due to tax positions that we undertook. We, as a global company, are exposed to various tax jurisdictions. We may be exposed to tax payments and related expenses due to tax positions that we have taken regarding filing of various tax returns or in cases where we determined not to file tax returns. 15 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel could harm our results of operations. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel, and our principal offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence and hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens and several Arab countries. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and its subsequent seizure of control of the Gaza strip have created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Since June 2007, thousands of missiles have been fired from Gaza at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas in January 2009. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, may hinder Israel’s international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where we can sell our products. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the recent increase in hostilities. We do not believe that the political and security situation has had a material impact on our business to date; however, we can give no assurance that it will have no such effect in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or threatening Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic conditions in Israel could adversely affect our operations. The rate of inflation in Israel may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Similarly, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar. A substantial amount of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars or is U.S. dollar-linked, but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally the rent for our facilities in Israel and salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Similarly, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the inflation adjusted NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the U.S. dollar or vice versa. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, will increase labor and other costs, which will increase the dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. Even if we perform hedging transactions, they may not adequately protect us from the effects of inflation in Israel. The tax benefits we currently entitled to receive require us to meet several conditions, which we may fail to satisfy. Our investment programs were granted the status of an approved enterprise under Israel’s Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investments Law. An approved enterprise is eligible for tax benefits on taxable income derived from its approved enterprise programs. The benefits available to an approved enterprise are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. If we have to pay additional taxes, this could harm our business and our profitability when achieved. The tax benefits we expect to receive will be applicable only when we have taxable income. 16 Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We were obligated to pay royalties with respect to revenues derived from products developed with the grants received. Since December 31, 2006, we did not pay or accrue any royalties to the Chief Scientist. However, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon Chief Scientist grants. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and some were called to duty during armed conflicts, such as the one in January 2009. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances and could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees because of military service. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Any disruption in our operations as the result of military service by key personnel could harm our business. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Goldfarb, Levy, Eran, Meiri, Tzafrir & Co., that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgement is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. 17 Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or other business combination. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See “Item 10B - Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” We may be required to pay additional taxes relating to certain relocation expenses. We have assessed that a tax exposure contingency may exist with regard to relocation expenses of certain of our subsidiaries’ employees and former employees. We cannot reasonably estimate the related amount of loss, if any, for the tax contingency. Accordingly, and based on our legal counsel’s opinion, we have not recorded an accrual for the said tax contingency. If we are required to pay additional taxes on account of this contingency, our future results may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has decreased significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Our share price has decreased significantly since late 2002. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction of new telecommunications services and new industry standards; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • general market conditions, and changes in market conditions in our industry; • the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector); and • political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel, the United States and worldwide. We may not satisfy the NASDAQ requirements for continued listing. If we cannot satisfy these requirements, NASDAQ could delist our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, under the symbol TTIL. To continue to be listed on the NASDAQ, we will need to satisfy a number of conditions, including a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. Since November 2008, the bid price of our ordinary shares closed below the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. Accordingly, we are not in compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirments. However, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement of the minimum bid price and minimum market value of publicly held shares, or MVPHS, requirements until July 20, 2009. During the temporary suspension, NASDAQ will not issue any new citations for bid price or MVPHS violations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the minimum bid, or meet the other continued listing requirements of NASDAQ in the future. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ, trading in our ordinary shares may be conducted, if available, on the “OTC Bulletin Board Service” or, if available, another medium. In the event of such delisting, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our ordinary shares, and our ability to raise future capital through the sale of our ordinary shares could be severely limited. 18 In addition, if our ordinary shares were delisted from NASDAQ, our ordinary shares could be considered a “penny stock” under the U.S. federal securities laws. Additional regulatory requirements apply to trading by broker-dealers of penny stocks that could result in the loss of an effective trading market for our ordinary shares. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, having potentially punitive interest charges apply to those gains, and the denial of the taxation of certain dividends paid by us at the lower rates applicable to long-term capital gains. Although we do not believe that we have been a PFIC for any tax year through and including 2008, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the market value of our shares or valuing our assets, and it is difficult to make accurate determinations about these items. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances to you about our status. U.S. shareholders are urged to consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of March 19, 2009, we had approximately 16.0 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 6 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants or which are issuable upon conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of the outstanding warrants and options or Series A Preferred Shares will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Shares, or upon the exercise of warrants or employee options, or if the perception exists that our shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and upon terms and conditions we deem appropriate. One person beneficially owns a substantial amount of our shares and may influence our affairs. As of March 19, 2009, Shlomo Eisenberg, the former chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned 4,689,924 ordinary shares, which represents approximately 24.76% of our voting power. As a result, he may have an influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. The rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares are superior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. In December 2004, we issued 6,636,391 Series A Preferred Shares to the investors in the private placement transaction described elsewhere in this annual report. As of March 19, 2009, 2,936,391 Series A Preferred Shares remain outstanding. The preferential rights of the Series A Preferred Shares currently include, among others: • weighted-average anti-dilution protection in the event that we issue or are deemed to have issued (subject to certain exceptions) ordinary shares at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price in effect at the time of such issuance or deemed issuance, which could result in dilution of the holdings of ordinary shareholders; and • a preference in the event we are liquidated, which could result in the holders of our ordinary shares recovering a lesser amount in the event of our liquidation than they would have received had we not issued the Series A Preferred Shares. 19 We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 