Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth and it may be difficult to replicate historical earnings growth. Consequently, historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede the ability to expand market presence. If the Company experiences a significant decrease in the historical rate of growth, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of operating costs are fixed expenses. Certain interest rate movements may impact earnings and asset value. Since December 31, 2008, the prime lending rate has remained at 3.25%, while the Federal Funds rate has held constant at 0.0% to 0.25%. Short-term and intermediate-term market interest rates are used as a guide to price the Bank’s loans and deposits. The decline in such interest rates has had a negative impact on the Bank’s interest rate spread and net interest margin, due to the interest sensitivity of the Bank’s interest-earning assets. With the Federal Reserve’s current policy of continuing to hold interest rates at historical low levels, it is not foreseeable that interest rates can decline farther. In this extraordinary interest rate environment, rates would be driven below zero if downward interest rate assumptions were made. Should short-term interest rates increase dramatically in the near future, and if rates on the Bank’s loans and investments reprice upwards faster than the rates on the Bank’s deposits and borrowings, the Bank could experience an increased interest rate spread and net interest margin, which could have a positive effect on the Bank’s profitability. Changes in current interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Conversely, increases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from decreases in interest rates could have a positive effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. This competition makes it more difficult for the Bank to originate new loans and at times has required the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits could result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits, and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to continue in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. If the Bank experiences greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if the Bank experiences greater nonpayment levels than anticipated, earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of the Company’s common stock, could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. In addition, as a result of inherent risks in the loan portfolio, loan losses may be greater than management’s estimates of the appropriate level for the allowance. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, stockholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect profitability. Loan losses will reduce the allowance for credit losses, and reduction in the allowance for credit losses could be restored by an increase in the provision for loan losses. This would reduce earnings which could have an adverse effect on the stock price. 35 The Bank originates commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending, which generally are riskier than residential mortgage lending. The Bank currently operates as a North Carolina chartered commercial bank. Prior to its conversion to a commercial bank in 1997, the Bank operated as a traditional savings and loan association, primarily emphasizing the origination of loans secured by single-family residences. Upon converting to a commercial bank, the Board of Directors determined there was a local demand for commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans. As a result, the Board of Directors determined to refocus the Bank’s strategy. Pursuant to this strategy, while continuing to pursue its existing business of originating single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank has gradually expanded into commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending. In furtherance of this strategy, the Bank recruited experienced commercial real estate and consumer loan and consumer lending officers and developed commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loan products. As a result of its efforts over the years, at December 31, 2010, the Bank had commercial real estate, commercial construction, commercial business and consumer loans totaling $409.6 million, $61.1 million, $22.0 million and $83.1 million, respectively, which represented 63.7%, 9.5%, 3.4% and 12.9%, respectively, of total loans. At December 31, 2010, $58.8 million, or 9.1% of total loans, consisted of residential real estate mortgage loans. While commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, they generally carry a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate lending entails significant additional risks as compared with single-family residential property lending. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. The payment experience on such loans typically is dependent on the successful operation of the real estate project, retail establishment or business. These risks can be significantly affected by supply and demand conditions in the market for office, retail and residential space, and, as such, may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy generally. To minimize these risks, the Bank generally limits itself to its market area or to borrowers with which it has prior experience or who are otherwise known to the Bank. It has been the Bank’s policy to obtain annual financial statements of the business of the borrower or the project for which commercial real estate loans are made. In addition, in the case of commercial mortgage loans made to a partnership or a corporation, the Bank seeks, whenever possible, to obtain personal guarantees and annual financial statements of the principals of the partnership or corporation. Commercial business loans are often larger and may involve greater risk than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on successful operation of the business involved, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy. The Bank will seek to minimize these risks through its underwriting guidelines, which may require certain safeguards, such as the loan be supported by adequate cash flow of the borrower, profitability of the business, collateral and personal guarantees of the individual in the business. In addition, the Bank generally limits this type of lending to its market area and to borrowers with whom it has prior experience or who are otherwise well known to the Bank. Consumer loans entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans which are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciable assets. Repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and this is more likely to be adversely affected by events such as job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. See “Business of the Bank – Lending Activities – Consumer and Other Lending.” Weakness continues in the markets for residential or commercial real estate, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce the Company’s net income and profitability. Since 2007, the United States has experienced a continued softening in the residential housing markets, increasing delinquency and default rates. This has resulted in continued volatile and constrained secondary credit markets, which has resulted in a tightening of mortgage guidelines with our investors and mortgage guaranty insurance companies. The results have affected the mortgage industry in general by reducing mortgage credit for home buyers who otherwise may have qualified for a home loan prior to 2007. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values and tightening of credit guidelines in areas in which it operates. Decreases in real estate values in these areas could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments. If poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, then the Company’s net income and profits may decrease. 36 The declines in home prices in many markets across the United States, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in the Bank’s portfolio of loans related to residential real estate construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which are provided for in the allowance for loan losses. In that event, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected. Additionally, continued weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon the Company’s profitability. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity is essential to the Bank’s business and it relies, in part, on external funding sources to finance a portion of its operations. Liquidity is essential to the Bank’s business and could be negatively affected by the inability to access secured lending markets or raise funding in the long-term or short-term capital markets. Factors that cannot be controlled, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair the ability to raise funding. In addition, the ability to raise funding could be impaired if the FHLB develops a negative perception of the Bank’s long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed due to a decline in the level of business activity, actions regulatory authorities might take, or the discovery of employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other things. If the Bank were unable to raise funds using the methods described above, it would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as the investment and loan portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. The Bank may be unable to sell some of its assets, or may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect its operations. The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During 2009 and 2010, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect on its ability to access capital, its business, its financial condition, and its results of operations. In response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets and the potential threats to the solvency of investment banks and other financial institutions, the United States government has taken unprecedented actions. These actions include the government-assisted acquisition of certain investment brokerage firms; the federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and the historic Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) authorizing the U.S. Treasury to invest in financial institutions and purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets or particular financial institutions. There can be no assurance as to when or if the government will further intervene in the financial sector and what impact government actions will have on the financial markets. Governmental intervention (or the lack thereof) could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. After careful review and consideration, the Company determined not to participate in the TARP program. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy in the Bank’s market area. The Bank’s market area consists of eastern, northeastern, southeastern and central North Carolina, where the Bank’s offices are located. As of December 31, 2010, management estimates that more than 95% of deposits and 90% of loans came from its primary market area. Because of the Bank’s concentration of business activities in its primary market area, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in its market area. The current economic environment has adversely affected real estate values, the volume of home sales, unemployment and other related economic conditions in the markets served by the Company and the Bank. 37 The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner and the FDIC, as its primary federal regulator. The Company also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and by the Commissioner. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank’s assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things: · the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities and practices, and to improve cooperation between federal agencies; · the creation of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products, which would affect both banks and non-bank financial companies; · the establishment of strengthened capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; · enhanced regulation of financial markets, including derivatives and securitization markets; · the elimination of certain trading activities by banks; · a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000 per account, an extension of unlimited deposit insurance on qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, and an increase in the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve requirement from 1.15% to 1.35%, with assessments to be based on assets as opposed to deposits; · amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations; and · new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance Although the Dodd-Frank Act has been signed into law, a number of provisions remain to be implemented through the rulemaking process at various regulatory agencies. We are unable to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the forthcoming rules and regulations will impact the business of the Company and the Bank. However, we believe that certain aspects of the new legislation, including, without limitation, the additional cost of higher deposit insurance coverage and the costs of compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements and examinations could have an impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced, or how such changes may affect us. The Bank relies heavily on the services of key personnel. The Bank is a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. The Bank expects its future growth to be driven in large part by the relationships maintained with its customers by the executive and other key officers. The unexpected loss of services of any executive and other key officers could have an adverse effect on operations and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. 38 The Company’s common stock is not FDIC insured. The Company’s common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of the Bank and is not insured by the FDIC, the Deposit Insurance Fund or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; restrictions on the acquisition of the Company’s equity securities; and provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider non-monetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company’s equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional shares of Common Stock up to a total of 25,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, Virginia law provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of the Company, and federal and North Carolina laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of banks and their holding companies. The Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in the Company’s and the Bank’s employee benefit plans, employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 