D. Risk factors. The following factors and other additional risks not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects, financial results or otherwise. Reference to this cautionary statement in the context of a forward-looking statement or statements shall be deemed to be a statement that any one or more of the following factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statement or statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in the Company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. (a) Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry (1) Our limited operating history and evolving business strategy may not serve as an adequate measure for future prospects and results of our operations. We have limited experience in the businesses in which we are currently involved. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our network security and solar businesses and prospects. As such, our limited historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our businesses and financial performance. We were formed in 1996 and engaged in the sanitary wares and ceramic tiles manufacturing business, which was changed to the Internet related business in June 2000 and then the addition of Nutraceutical related business in October 2005 which was fully disposed at end of December 2007. In September 2007, the Company entered into the solar industry by manufacturing the SnO2 solar base plates. Currently, we have installed the first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line at China Merchants Zhangzhou Development Zone. As a result, we have not shipped any base plates and have not yet recognized any revenues from sales of our solar base plates. 6 Table of Contents The network security and solar power markets are rapidly evolving and are experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Our future success will depend on our ability to expand our new core business in manufacturing our SnO2 base plates. Moreover, the manufacturing business of SnO2 base plates is only in the early stage of expansion, and we have limited experience upon which to predict whether it will continue to be successful. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. (2) We may not be able to manage our new business expansion of operations effectively. We announced our solar energy business in September 2007. Currently, we have installed the first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line at Tangyang Industrial Zone of China Merchants Zhangzhou Development Zone of PRC for product commercialization. We anticipate that there is continued market growth in demand for our photovoltaic (“PV”) products in the future, which requires us to expand our business to capture the emerging market opportunities and increase the penetration and market share. To manage the potential expansion of our business operations, we need to improve our operational and financial systems, internal procedures and risk control system, increase the manufacturing throughput, and recruit, train and manage our employee base, especially the engineering and manufacturing operation management team. Meanwhile, our management will be required to maintain and strengthen the relationship with our suppliers, strategic partners, customers and local governments, etc. We can not assure our current and planned operations, systems and internal controls will be adequate to support our rapid expansion. If we are not able to manage the business expansion very effectively, we may not be able to well execute our business strategies to capture the strong market opportunities and ensure the profitability. (3) We have continued to incur operating losses and we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses in the preceding five years as follows: Operating loss Year (in thousands of Rmb) 2003 (4,378 ) 2004 (10,779 ) 2005 (16,676 ) 2006 (30,720 ) 2007 (25,415 ) The profit incurred from our discontinued operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 amounted to Rmb1.73 million. The loss from discontinued operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, were Rmb0.60 million and Rmb83.59 million, respectively. The rapidly evolving markets in which we operate our businesses have made it difficult for us to estimate our future performance and profitability. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is uncertain and will depend largely on the successful commercialization of our solar base plates, as to which there can be no assurance. We cannot foresee whether that operating losses will not increase in the future because our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: – our ability to obtain timely and accurate user sales information; – the effectiveness of our distribution channel; – product upgrading or updating progress by us or our competitors; – the mix of products sold; – our competitors’ price changes; – our research and development and marketing abilities; – our acquisition costs of new technology or businesses; – employee wage pressure arising from increased competition for skilled employees and increased governmental staff welfare regulations; and – extraordinary costs incurred for acquisitions or any reductions in work force, if any. 7 Table of Contents The above factors make predicting revenues more difficult and may adversely affect our performance and profitability. Although we believe new or additional sales contracts may be entered into in the future, there is no assurance that these contracts can be successfully executed, or even if successfully executed, we may not be able to control our costs effectively. The operating results would be materially adversely affected in case the contracts are not successfully obtained and costs are not effectively controlled. (4) We expect that we will need to obtain additional financing to continue to operate our business, including significant capital expenditures to increase our production capacity. We have in the past experienced substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations. We expect that we will continue to need significant financing to operate our new business, including capital expenditures to expand our production capacity. In particular, we believe that we will require additional funding for manufacturing capacity expansion of our SnO2 production lines from the current planned 6-8 production lines per annum to a total expected of more than 20 production lines by 2010. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available or that the terms of such additional financing, if available, will be acceptable to us. If additional financing is not available or not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly impaired. If we need to pay higher than anticipated costs for additional financing, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and could result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. If new shares are issued for financing or acquisition purposes, interests of existing shareholders will be diluted. (5) We may not be competitive and increased competition could seriously harm our business. Many of our competitors have one or more of the following advantages over us: – Longer operating history; – Greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources; – Greater profitability in their operations; – Superior product functionality in certain areas; – Greater name recognition; – A broader range of products to offer; and – A larger base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their sales, which may result in increased competition. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. With China entering into the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), more and more foreign companies are entering into the Chinese markets. They also impose great potential competition to our business. According to a report issued by CIBC World Markets Corp in November 2007, there are over 19 companies in the world to produce thin-film solar modules including major players in the Amorphous Silicon (a-Si) market such as Sharp, Energy Conversion Devices, EPV, and Kaneka, etc., which will be our potential customers. Our direct competitors are Asahi, Pilkington, AFG which are leading glass producers in the world and have established more prominent market positions. Although we have competitive advantages such as lower labor cost and stronger local government support, we will still be unable to increase our sales if we fail to attract and retain sufficient customers, establish successful distribution networks and manage sound sales and marketing for our SnO2 base plates. We expect to compete with future entrants to the solar market that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, a few of which have already announced their capital investment to enter the solar business. (6) We may face risks in retaining our employees. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain the skilled labor force especially the technical personnel and our top executive officers. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry and operation management, are vital to our success. If one or more of our executive officers or key technical persons are unable or unwilling to continue their employment, we may not be able to replace them very timely and effectively. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new replacements. Furthermore, we could not assure the current key employees would not join our competitors or form a brand-new competing company although we have entered into non-competition and confidentiality agreements with these key employees, given the limited enforceability of these types of agreements in China. Besides, we will still face the risk that some key technical personnel from our subsidiary might divulge our protected intellectual property or trade secrets to 8 Table of Contents competitors even though we have established very stringent security system to protect our know-how in terms of thin-film base plate’s production. (7) We are subject to risks of excessive reliance on certain significant customers. 50.7% of our sales in 2007 were generated by three major customers of network security business. Although we believe that we have maintained good relationships with these customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain good relationships with these customers. A loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. (8) We may not successfully integrate acquired business, products and technologies. As a component of our business and growth strategy, we intend to acquire companies, products and technologies that we feel will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability. The acquisitions may result in use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of common stock and significant annual impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, each of these could materially and adversely affect our results. We may also encounter problems in implementing effective controls over acquired businesses, including: – the difficulties of integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of the acquired business; – the diversion of management attention to business concerns of the acquired business from that of our existing operation; – declining employee morale and retention issues for employees in the acquired business; – the risk of litigation by terminated employees and contractors; and – our lack of familiarly with other conditions and business practices of the acquired business We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new technological products on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementation of our strategies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations (9) We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the market, new competition, and new product developments. The markets in which our business is involved are highly fragmented and characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. The solar energy market, especially, is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Market data in the solar industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If the thin-film based solar products prove unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for building integrated photovoltaics (“BIPV”) fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to generate adequate revenues to support our viability and future growth. Our success will depend on our ability to – provide a broad range of network security, network management software products and solar thin film products; – timely develop and introduce new products with technological advances; – respond promptly to new customer requirements; – comply promptly with evolving industry standards; – provide reliable thin-film solar products to customers at the lowest costs; – control delays and cost overruns due to many external beyond-control factors such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; – receive available government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; and 9 Table of Contents – execute our business strategy and expansion plan effectively. (10) We do not intend to pay dividends. Payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. (11) We are subject to risk of computer hackers’ attacks. Following the increase in computer crimes in China, computer hackers may create viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our products. Although no such event has occurred or been discovered to date, the adverse impact arising from any virus sabotage or attacks cannot be ignored. If sabotage or attacks on our network security products do happen, our customers’ computer systems could be seriously damaged. Consequently, our business will be adversely impacted as a result of our impaired professional image. (12) We may be unable to sustain our sales growth and profitability if the sufficient demand for thin-film products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we expected. The demand for thin-film based products in China may not develop or may take longer to develop than we expected. There are many factors that could affect the demand for thin-film based products, which include: – efficiency and performance of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products; – cost-effectiveness (cost per watt) of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products and other non-solar energy sources and products; – reliability of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products and other non-solar energy sources and products; – availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; – breakthrough of other alternative energy technologies, such as wind power and biomass, etc.; – price change of other conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as oil; and – capital expenditures by solar products purchasers, which might decrease when the economy slows down. Any failure in such implementation may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. (13) We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies. We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, which will require us to introduce more technological products through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions. Some of these strategies relate to new technological products for which there are no established markets in China, or relate to technological products in which we lack experience and expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new technological products on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementation of our strategies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. (14) We have limited business insurance coverage in China and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business disruption or litigation or natural disasters.. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make having such insurance impractical for us. As a result, except for directors and officers insurance, employees’ compensation insurance and fire insurance we do not have any other business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Due to our limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 10 Table of Contents (15) We may not be able to refine our technology R & D and develop and introduce new solar solutions which will subsequently result in the reduction of our competitiveness, sales and market share. The solar industry is developing very rapidly and most of our industry competitors have strong viability based on their know-how and advanced solar technology. If we want to survive and take a good position, we will need to invest significant financial resources in our research and development to keep up with the technological advances in the PV industry. For example, R & D breakthroughs in crystalline silicon-based solar companies may generate a tremendous cost reduction, which will lead to sudden and sharp drop in sales for thin-film focused solar companies such as us. Therefore, our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share. (16) We are subject to risks of acquisition of new business, products and technologies. Our businesses are highly competitive. They have experienced, and are expected to continue to experience, a significant amount of consolidation. It is one of our growth strategies to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and technologies in future. However, a number of companies, many of which have greater financial resources, marketing capabilities and research and development capacities than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce. These industries are characterized by extensive and ongoing research efforts. Other competitors may succeed in developing products superior to those we market. It may be difficult for us to maintain or increase sales volume and market share due to keen competition and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions and strategic investments involve a number of risks and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions. We may lose all or a portion of our investment. Our available cash and securities may be used to buy or invest in companies or products, which could result in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we may have to incur or assume the acquiree’s liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown at the time of acquisition, which may result in a material adverse effect on us. In the event that the acquiree does not perform as anticipated, we would be required to incur a significant impairment of goodwill. Any impairment of goodwill may adversely and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. (17) Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We rely on applicable trademark and copyright laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights in China. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of China and foreign patents and patent applications, and intend to seek additional patents as we deem appropriate. Whether patents will be issued for any of our pending applications or even if patents are issued, it is uncertain that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to effectively limit competition against us. Furthermore, any patents that may be issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation may result from our use of registered trademarks or common law marks and, if litigation against us were successful, a resulting loss of the right to use a trademark could reduce sales of our products and could result in a significant damage award. Although we intend to defend the proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology and products is difficult. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. Besides, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in technological industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in China do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. (b) Risks Associated with China. A substantial majority of our assets are located in China and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. 11 Table of Contents (1) We are subject to risks relating to operating a business in China. We may face foreign competition as a result of China’s entry into WTO. China formally became a member of the WTO in 2002. China is required to reduce tariffs and to eliminate other trade restrictions, which may lead to increased foreign investment and foreign competition in China’s markets from international companies and the impact of which on China’s economy and our business would remain uncertain. The foreign competitors are usually characterized by better research and development and financial backup who can bear a longer period of net operating loss and have larger scale marketing campaign. Even with locally developed products occupying the majority of the existing market share, we cannot assure you that this strength will be maintained, particularly when foreign competitors form joint ventures with certain local competitors. Any success in increasing market share by foreign competitors will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience foreign currency losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Chinese government controls the conversion of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi. We must rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. In 2007 and 2006, our total revenue was received in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for current account transactions, such as the payment of dividends to shareholders to foreign invested enterprises such as us, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue in the future which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Because a significant portion of our revenue and cash operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, the laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, 12 Table of Contents interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. Due to our current business operations, we may be subject to the implementations, interpretations and enforcement of China’s laws by its courts or governmental agencies in connection with our contracts with third parties. The resolution of any such matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. (2) Our business may be adversely affected by Chinese government regulations. Solar Business Before Chinese government’s subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid and off-grid solar energy applications become determined and tangible, we may not be able to assure a significant growth in demand for our products. Globally speaking, the growth of many of solar markets including the largest one, Germany, as well as Spain and the United States, depends in part on the availability and amounts of government subsidies and economic incentives. But in China, the solar market is still in the early development stage and the Chinese central government has not announced determined and detailed policy in terms of subsidies and other incentive programs to support the solar companies in China. Although we can see emerging incentive policies including special government funding and tax write-off from local governments, the uncertainty still exists. Any reduction or elimination of such subsidies or incentives may have a materially adverse impact to the overall market and our revenues. (c) Risks Associated with Investing in Our Common Stock. Stock prices of technological-related companies, particularly companies with business operations primarily in China, have fluctuated widely in recent years, which could result in substantial losses to investors. (1) Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price is volatile and has ranged from a per-share high of US$10.39 to a low of US$2.71 during the period from January 1, 2007 to May 30, 2008. On May 30, 2008, the closing price of our common stock was US$6.31 per share. Many factors affect our stock price which we cannot control. Our ability to meet the expectations of investors with respect to our operating and financial results may contribute to current and future stock price volatility. The price and trading volume of our common stock may be highly volatile for business specific reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services and products could cause the market price of our common stock to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock trades. There is no assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. (2) The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. (3) Rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law may be less than those of shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most United States jurisdictions. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 13 Table of Contents Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, in most United States jurisdictions, directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders, including a duty of care, pursuant to which directors must properly apprise themselves of all reasonably available information, and a duty of loyalty, pursuant to which they must protect the interests of the corporation and refrain from conduct that injures the corporation or its shareholders or that deprives the corporation or its shareholders of any profit or advantage. Many United States jurisdictions have enacted various statutory provisions which permit the monetary liability of directors to be eliminated or limited. Under British Virgin Islands law, liability of a corporate director to the corporation is basically limited to cases of willful malfeasance in the performance of his duties or to cases where the director has not acted honestly and in good faith and with a view to the best interests of the corporation. It is unknown whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, liabilities which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. (4) There have been historical deficiencies with our internal controls and there remain areas of our internal controls that require improvement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operated, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. As of December 31, 2007, our company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because management has identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which are contained in Section 15T Controls and Procedures. We plan to continue to take additional steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Since the third quarter of 2007, we have engaged a consulting firm experienced in handling compliance with the requirements of SOX. However, if we are unable to implement solutions to deficiencies in our existing internal and disclosure controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Any of these possible outcomes may result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace and/or a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. We could also become subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions by regulators such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. We may also be required to incur greater than expected costs to improve our internal control processes. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. (5) As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; 14 Table of Contents • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have voluntarily complied with one or more of the foregoing provisions. (6) Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. 