Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, as well as any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Other risks not presently known to us or not presently thought to be material could also affect our business, our financial condition or results of operations. Because of these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business will suffer if we are not able to obtain reliable data as a basis for our healthcare information. To provide our healthcare information, we must have comprehensive, reliable data. We obtain this data from a number of public and private sources. Currently, the information we utilize to compile our hospital ratings is acquired from CMS and 19 individual states. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues derived from SQP, SQI, and QAI products accounted for approximately 60% of our total ratings and advisory revenue. These products are based exclusively on our hospital ratings. Moreover, some of our Health Management Suite modules are based on information acquired from CMS. Our business could suffer if CMS or our other data sources began charging for use or access to this data, or cease to make such information available, and suitable alternative sources were not identified on a timely basis. Moreover, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the reliability of the information that we use and license. If our information is inaccurate or otherwise erroneous, our reputation and customer following could be damaged. In the past, we have had disputes with two providers of information who sought to terminate our arrangements based on allegations, which we denied, that our use of the information violated the terms of our agreements with the providers. We have located alternate sources of information or modified the scope of information provided in response to these disputes. Nevertheless, our failure to obtain suitable information, if needed to use in place of information provided by a source that stops providing information or that charges substantially more for such data, could hurt our business. Failure to effectively manage the growth of our operations and infrastructure could disrupt our operations and prevent us from maintaining or increasing profitability. We have expanded meaningfully in the past few years and we continue to seek to increase our sales efforts, attract new clients, maintain existing clients and develop new products. To manage our growth, we must successfully attract qualified personnel and successfully integrate new personnel into our operations. Our failure to manage personnel and otherwise appropriately manage expansion of our business could adversely affect our business and future growth. If our website traffic continues to grow and we do not maintain the appropriate infrastructure to support the growth and new technologies, our business will be harmed. Our proprietary rights may not be fully protected. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be harmed by making it easier for our competitors to duplicate our products and services. While we have certain trademarks and copyrights that have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the U.S. Copyright Office, respectively, such trademarks and copyrights may not offer adequate protection. In addition, we require some of our employees to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements and, in more limited cases, non-competition agreements. Nevertheless, our efforts to establish and protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our services or branding by others or may be subject to challenge by others. Furthermore, our ability to protect some of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of intellectual property rights in internet-related industries are uncertain and are still evolving. In addition, although we have obtained copyright registrations for some of our databases, such registrations and existing laws may not allow us to adequately protect the underlying data contained in such databases. Accordingly, third parties may contend they are free to use portions of the data contained in such databases. Also, our current rights and existing laws do not preclude competitors from independently developing businesses with functionality or features substantially equivalent or superior to our business. Any infringement, misappropriation or third-party development could have a material adverse effect on us. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property subjects us to the risk of litigation. From time to time, it has been necessary for us to resort to litigation and threats of litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. The results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on us. The litigation, regardless of its outcome, diverts management resources, may be expensive, and may not effectively protect our intellectual property. 16 Table of Contents In addition to the risk of failing to adequately protect our proprietary rights, there is a risk that we may become subject to claims that we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. The possibility of inadvertently infringing upon the proprietary rights of others is increased for businesses such as ours because there is significant uncertainty regarding the applicability to the internet of existing laws regarding matters such as copyrights and other intellectual property rights. A claim of intellectual property infringement may cause us to incur significant expenses to defend against the claim. If we are not successful in defending against an infringement claim, we could be liable for substantial damages or may be prevented from offering some aspects of our services. We may be required to make royalty payments, which could be substantial, to a party claiming that we have infringed their rights. These events could damage our business. Any significant litigation could cause us to incur substantial expense to protect our rights. We may lose business if hospitals and others utilize our name and ratings without our permission. In order for a hospital to use our name and ratings information, we require them to enter into a marketing agreement with us. However, some hospitals, the media and others have taken the position that certain use of our ratings is “fair use” and not proprietary. We will need to continue to enforce the protection of our proprietary information and aggressively pursue selected hospitals and others that utilize our name and ratings information without our permission. If our enforcement efforts are unsuccessful, our business may be adversely affected. We may be sued for information we obtain or information retrieved from our websites or otherwise provided to employers and others. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark or patent infringement, personal injury or other legal theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or otherwise provide to customers. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as print publications in the past. We have received threats from some providers that they will assert defamation and other claims in connection with the information posted on our www.healthgrades.com website. We have had disputes with certain physicians with respect to the accuracy of their data that is included in reports we sell or otherwise provide to consumers and professionals, and have settled litigation with some of these physicians. Continuing to improve the accuracy of our data by both internal process measures and by obtaining data from various sources for comparative purposes will continue to be important for us. Patients who file lawsuits against providers often name as defendants all persons or companies with any nexus to the providers. As a result, patients may file lawsuits against us based on, among other things, treatment provided by hospitals or other facilities that are highly rated by us, or by doctors who are identified on our website. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, or information delivered by a third-party website that a consumer accesses through our website, exposes us to malpractice or other personal injury liability for wrongful delivery of healthcare services or erroneous health information. Such exposure may adversely affect our business. Moreover, the amount of insurance we maintain may not be sufficient to cover all of the losses we might incur from these claims and legal actions. In addition, insurance for some risks is difficult, impossible or too costly to obtain, and as a result, we may not be able to purchase insurance for some types of risks. If we do not strengthen recognition of our brand name, our ability to expand our business will be impaired. To expand our audience of online users, increase our online traffic and increase interest in our other healthcare information services, we must strengthen recognition of our brand name. To be successful in this effort, consumers must perceive us as a trusted source of healthcare information; hospitals and other providers must perceive us as an effective marketing and sales channel for their services and products; and employees, payers, insurers, and others must perceive us as a source of valuable information that can be used to enhance the quality and cost-effectiveness of healthcare. We may be required to increase our marketing budget substantially in our efforts to strengthen brand name recognition. This will increase our costs, and our business will suffer if our efforts are not productive. If we were to lose the services of Kerry Hicks or other members of our executive management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our executive management team. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Kerry Hicks, is critical to the overall management of HealthGrades as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. All of our executive officers, with the exception of Kerry Hicks, our CEO, and David Hicks, one of our Executive Vice Presidents, are at-will employees. We do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. 17 Table of Contents Our business will suffer if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Our ability to execute our business plan and be successful depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees when needed. As we expand our business, we will need to hire additional personnel to support our information technology operations in particular. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel as needed and retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business will suffer. We may experience system failures that could interrupt our services. The success of our websites and activities related to the websites will depend on the capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure. We rely on telecommunications providers to provide the external telecommunications infrastructure necessary for internet communications. We also depend on providers of online content and services for some of the content and applications that we make available through www.healthgrades.com and www.WrongDiagnosis.com. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in the loss of potential or existing users or customers. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for losses that may occur or to provide for costs associated with business interruptions. We must be able to operate our website 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, without material interruption. To operate without interruption, we and our telecommunication and content providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. Our websites may be required to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. Users of our websites may experience slower response times or system failures due to increased traffic on our websites or a variety of other reasons. We could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. Any significant interruption of our website operations could damage our business. Failure by third party vendors of technology. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. Our business also depends on the ability of our users to access the internet, and certain of our data offerings require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by a company with significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace. While interference with access to our website seems unlikely, such carrier interference could result in a loss of existing users and advertisers and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenue and growth. We may rely on third parties to supplement or provide ancillary content for our website. The availability of such content could be restricted or terminated by such third parties or substantial fees may be imposed for our continued use. We may lose business if we are unable to keep up with rapid technological or other changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving technological standards in the industry, frequent new service and product announcements and changing consumer demand. If we are unable to keep up with changing technology and other factors related to our market, we may be unable to attract and retain users or customers, which would reduce our revenues. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to these changes, and to continuously improve the content, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new internet networking, telecommunications or development technologies, or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our website or infrastructure, which might negatively affect our ability to remain profitable. 18 Table of Contents Our rating and measuring systems, data and content may not be protected by intellectual property laws. We may not be able to prevent our competitors and others from developing and using similar rating and measuring systems or from reproducing or publishing our data and content. We rely largely on advertising and search engine placement to generate traffic to our website. We rely on online media to attract a significant percentage of the visitors to our website. Prices for online advertising could increase as a result of increased demand for advertising inventory, which would cause our expenses to increase and could result in lower margins. Our advertising contracts with online search engines are typically short-term. If one or more search engines on which we rely for advertising modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could increase, the number of visitors we generate could decrease and our revenues or margins could decline. Additionally, changes to our position within search engine search results could cause visits to our website and the number of reports ordered from our website to decline. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase advertising and sponsorship revenue. We began to offer advertising on our website at www.healthgrades.com in the latter half of 2007. Our ability to realize revenue from this initiative is subject to substantial uncertainty including, but not limited, to the following: • Our advertising initiative is in its early stages. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. As there are no substantial barriers to entry into the online advertising market, we expect that competitors will continue to enter this market. • Our websites face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and websites that provide health-related information, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. We also compete for advertisers and sponsors with providers of both healthcare-related and non-healthcare related content and services. • There are numerous items outside of our control that may limit our ability to accurately forecast or generate revenues from this area, including, but not limited to: advertisers’ budgets and buying patterns, the time between the initial contact with an advertising network, agency or potential advertiser or sponsor and the execution of a contract, which may be lengthy, and seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products, among other items. • If unable to provide quality graphics and content to attract users and advertisers to our websites, our advertising revenues may be adversely affected. • Technologies have been developed that can block the display of our ads. • We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks and other invalid clicks on our ads from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that we have determined are not intended by the user to link to the underlying content. Click fraud occurs when a user intentionally clicks on an ad displayed on a website for a reason other than to view the underlying content. If we are unable to stop these invalid clicks, we will be required to provide refunds to our advertisers, which would negatively affect our profitability and our reputation. Failure to effectively compete for online advertising may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our online business has a limited operating history. Our online business has a limited operating history and participates in relatively new and rapidly changing markets. Many companies with business plans based on providing healthcare information and related services through the internet have failed to be profitable and some have filed for bankruptcy and/or ceased operations. Even if demand from users exists, we cannot assure this aspect of our business will continue to be profitable. Our business will suffer if we are not able to compete successfully. The market for healthcare information is rapidly evolving and competitive. We expect competition to increase significantly, and our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to compete successfully. We currently compete, or potentially compete, with many providers of healthcare information services and products, both online and through traditional means. We compete, directly and indirectly, for users and customers principally with: • data providers that provide detailed utilization and outcomes information to hospitals; • healthcare consulting companies; 19 Table of Contents • companies or organizations that provide or maintain online healthcare information; • vendors of healthcare information, products and services distributed through other means, including direct sales, mail and fax messaging; • companies and organizations that provide or maintain general purpose consumer online services that provide access to healthcare content and services; • companies and organizations that provide or maintain public sector and non-profit websites that provide healthcare information and services without advertising or commercial sponsorships; • companies and organizations that provide or maintain web search and retrieval services and other high-traffic websites; and • publishers and distributors of traditional media, some of which have established or may establish websites. Some of these competitors are larger, have greater financial, marketing, technical and product development resources and have more experience in providing healthcare information than us. These competitors may also be better known than us. We cannot assume that we will be able to compete successfully against these competitors. The recent global economic downturn may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. The recent global economic downturn has caused disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted the levels of consumer spending. These and other macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial conditions. For example, current or potential customers, such as hospitals, may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay payments for previously purchased products or services. If consumer spending continues to decrease, this may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers’ ads displayed on our websites and fewer purchases of our consumer reports. Reduction in healthcare spending, as in elective surgeries, may adversely affect our business. Also, if the banking system or the financial markets remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Acquisitions could be risky and may place significant strain on our management systems and resources, which could negatively impact our operations. In 2008 we acquired certain operating assets of Adviware, and may acquire other companies or businesses in the future. Acquisitions of companies entail numerous risks, including: • potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and products or to realize cost savings or other anticipated benefits from integration; • loss of key employees of acquired operations; • the difficulty of assimilating geographically dispersed operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • unanticipated expense related to acquisitions, including significant transaction costs, which, under accounting rules, are required to be expensed rather than capitalized; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers of either an acquired company or our own business; • the potential for acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities; and • the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired business. 20 Table of Contents As a result of such acquisitions, we may have significant assets that include goodwill and other purchased intangibles. The testing of this goodwill and intangibles for impairment under established accounting guidelines requires significant use of judgment and assumptions. Changes in business conditions could require adjustments to the valuation of these assets. In addition, losses incurred by a company in which we have an investment may have a direct impact on our financial statements or could result in our having to write-down the value of such investment. Any such problems in integration could harm our growth strategy and distract our management, and could place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. RISKS RELATED TO HEALTHCARE INFORMATION AND THE INTERNET Healthcare reform and the cost of regulatory compliance could negatively affect our business. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. In the ordinary course of business, healthcare entities and companies that do business with them are subject to state and federal regulatory scrutiny, supervision, oversight and control. These various laws, regulations and guidelines affect, among other matters, the provision, licensing, labeling, marketing, promotion and reimbursement of healthcare services and products. Our failure or the failure of our customers to comply with any applicable legal or regulatory requirements, or any investigation or audit of our or our customers’ practices could: • result in limitation or prohibition of business activities; • subject us or our customers to legal fees and expenses and adverse publicity; or • increase the costs of regulatory compliance and, if found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have engaged in improper practices, subject us or our customers to criminal or civil monetary fines or other penalties A federal law commonly known as the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits kickbacks, rebates and bribes in return for referrals of federal healthcare program services. This law provides an extremely broad base for finding violations. Any remuneration, direct or indirect, offered, paid, solicited or received in return for referrals of patients or business for which payment may be made in whole or in part under Medicare or Medicaid could be considered a violation of the law. The statute also prohibits payments made to anyone to induce them to “recommend purchasing, leasing or ordering any good, facility, service or item for which payment may be made in whole or in part” by Medicare. Similar laws exist in some states. We believe that our operations comply with applicable legal regulatory requirements of the Anti-Kickback Statute. Nevertheless, some of these laws have been applied to payments by physicians for marketing and referral services and could constrain our relationships, including financial and marketing relationships with customers such as hospitals. Absent specific guidance from the OIG, our regulatory compliance cannot be prospectively confirmed. It also is possible that additional or more restrictive laws, regulations or guidelines could be adopted in the future. A federal law know as the “Stark Law” prohibits a physician from referring a Medicare patient for certain DHS to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, unless the referral is protected by one or more exceptions provided by law. DHS includes a wide range of ancillary healthcare services in a number of broad categories, including all inpatient and outpatient hospital services. Violations of the Stark Law may result in a number of penalties, including Medicare nonpayment of claims for DHS provided as a result of a prohibited referral, an obligation to refund amounts paid as a result of a prohibited referral and civil monetary penalties for knowing violations. While the Stark Law does not apply to our business, our hospital and physician customers must comply with the Stark Law. We do not believe that our business subjects our customers to risk under the Stark Law, though interpretations of the Stark Law are constantly evolving and changes in the law itself or the regulatory guidance could impair our business. Federal criminal statutes prohibit knowingly filing false claims or making false statements or causing false statements to be made by others, and certain civil statutes prohibit the filing of claims or causing the filing of claims that one knows were false. Criminal penalties include fines and imprisonment. Civil penalties under the FCA include fines of up to $11,000 per claim plus treble damages, for each filed claim. Although we are not filing claims ourselves, liability under the FCA can extend to those who cause claims to be filed. In addition, under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, states are encouraged to enact their own false claims laws, which could increase the number of false claims suits at the state level. To the extent that consulting advice provided to our customers could be construed as aiding or abetting the presentation of false claims by the customers, we could be subject to false claims liability. 21 Table of Contents In addition to the Anti-Kickback Statute, filing of false claims to the federal government is prohibited by federal criminal and civil statutes. Criminal provisions prohibit knowingly filing false claims, making false statements or claims to be made by others. Civil provisions under the FCA prohibit the filing of claims, or causing the filing of claims, that the person filing knew were false. Criminal penalties include fines and imprisonment. Civil penalties under the FCA include fines up to $11,000 per claim, plus treble damages, for each claim filed. In addition, under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, states are encouraged to enact their own false claims laws, which could increase the number of false claims suits at the state level. Although we are not filing claims ourselves, liability under the FCA can extend to those who cause the filings of claims. In May 2009, the President signed the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act which amended the FCA, granting the government and whistleblowers greater enforcement latitude. To the extent that consulting advice provided to our customers could be construed as aiding or abetting the presentation of false claims to the government by our customers, there could be false claims liability, although we endeavor to provide advice that cannot be so construed. The internet is subject to many legal uncertainties and potential government laws and regulations that may decrease usage of our websites, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a damaging effect on our business. Laws and regulations in jurisdictions throughout the world have been adopted and will likely continue to be adopted in the future that address internet, data and privacy related issues, including online content, user privacy, pricing, and quality of products and services. This legislation and related enforcement activities could increase our cost of doing business and negatively affect our business. Moreover, the manner in which laws and regulations passed prior to the popular use of the internet may be interpreted to govern issues like property ownership, libel, negligence and personal privacy are applicable to the internet may continue to evolve over time. Currently, U.S. privacy law consists of disparate state and federal statutes regulating specific industries that collect personal data. Some of these laws predate and therefore do not specifically address online activities and information. From time to time, comprehensive legislative and regulatory privacy proposals have been offered for consideration by federal, state and local governments in the United States and may be adopted in the future. Laws and regulations in countries outside the United States restrict the availability of new markets in other countries where those markets would otherwise be available for expansion. Moreover, restrictive privacy and other laws outside the United States serve as a model for new and more restrictive laws inside the United States at both the federal and the state levels. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease usage of our websites, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise cause our business to suffer. We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of content we provide. Consumers access health-related information through our online services, including information regarding particular medical conditions and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that consumers, health plan members or others may sue us under various causes of action. We may also be sued by physicians or other healthcare providers for claims like libel, slander, defamation and other claims of injury as the result of our content. If we fail to comply with current or future laws or regulations governing the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient health information, our business could suffer. Consumers sometimes enter private information about themselves or their family members when using our services. Also, our systems record use patterns when consumers access our databases that may reveal health-related information or other private information about the user. In addition, information regarding employee usage of healthcare providers and facilities can also be compiled by our systems in connection with services we offer to employers and other payers. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state privacy and confidentiality laws; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals, such as physicians, pharmacists and nurse practitioners; • Medicaid and Medicare laws; • HIPAA and related rules proposed by the Healthcare Financing Administration; and • CMS standards for electronic transmission of health data. Congress may consider future legislation that would establish more strict standards for protection and use of health information. While we are not gathering patient health information at this time and we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, other third-party websites that consumers access through our websites and employees, payers and other customers may not maintain systems to safeguard any health information they may be collecting. In some cases, we may place our content on computers that are under the physical control of others, which may increase the risk of an inappropriate disclosure of information. For example, we contract out the hosting of our websites to a third-party. A portion of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, known as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the HITECH Act), expanded the scope and application of HIPAA, including among other things, applying certain privacy and security provisions directly to business associates. Application of these rules to business associates is a significant change. Previously, if a breach involving a business associate occurred, the covered entity could just terminate the contract if the breach was not remedied. Responsibility and liability rested with the covered entity. Under the HITECH Act, the business associate now has responsibility and liability directly for a breach. 22 Table of Contents Under the HITECH Act, covered entities and business associates will face criminal and civil liability for failure to comply with HIPAA. Criminal penalties may be imposed against persons who obtain or disclose protected health information without authorization. In addition, a state’s Attorney General can bring civil actions against a person on behalf of residents adversely affected by violations of either HIPAA or the HITECH Act. The Attorney General can either seek to enjoin further violations or obtain monetary damages on behalf of the residents harmed. DHSS is also beginning to perform periodic audits of healthcare providers to ensure that required policies under the HITECH Act are in place. Finally, individuals harmed by violations will be able to recover a percentage of monetary penalties or a monetary settlement based upon methods established by DHHS for this private recovery. In addition, future laws or changes in current laws may necessitate costly adaptations to our systems. Online security breaches could harm our business. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Substantial or ongoing security breaches on our system or other internet-based systems could reduce user confidence in our websites, causing reduced usage that would adversely affect our business. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain confidence in our websites. We believe that consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of our provision of healthcare information on the internet. We will need to incur significant expense to protect and remedy against security breaches when we identify a significant business risk. Currently, we do not store sensitive information, such as patient information or credit card information, on any public-facing server. If we launch services that require us to gather sensitive information, our security expenditures will increase significantly. A party that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Security breaches could also damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet or customers and others who license our data. OTHER RISKS Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may deter or prevent a change of control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation requires the vote of 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting securities in order to effect certain actions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets, certain mergers and consolidations and our dissolution or liquidation, unless these actions have been approved by a majority of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock having such rights as may be designated by our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval. Our bylaws provide that stockholders must follow an advance notification procedure for certain nominations of candidates for the Board of Directors and for certain other stockholder business to be conducted at a stockholders meeting. The General Corporation Law of Delaware also restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders upon their acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock. All of these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, and thereby could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. In addition, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our Board of Directors. We have no intention to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to finance the expansion of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 23 Table of Contents 