D. Risk Factors—Risks Associated with Our Business—The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses.” 18 Any downgrading of Chile debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may adversely affect our business, our future financial performance, stockholder’s equity and the price of our shares and ADSs. Our ratings are equivalent to the Chilean sovereign ratings. In 2006, Moody’s improved its rating for the Republic of Chile and also for us. Any adverse revisions to Chile’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and our business, future financial performance, stockholder’s equity and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Chilean GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to certain matters that are inherently uncertain. The consolidated financial statements include various estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, estimates of the fair value of certain financial instruments, the selection of useful lives of certain assets and the valuation and recoverability of goodwill and deferred taxes. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results in future periods could differ from those produced by such estimates and assumptions, and if these differences were significant enough, our reported results of operations would be affected materially. Accounting, financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Chile differ from those in the United States. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. financial institution. There are also material differences between Chilean and U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Superintendency of Banks unaudited unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean GAAP and the rules of the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis. Such disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open or publicly listed companies such as us, have a principal objective of promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some material respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same 19 protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within Chile’s Formal Exchange Market. The ADSs are subject to a contract, dated May 17, 1994, among the depositary, us and the Central Bank (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that remains in full force and effect. The ADSs continue to be governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Contract subject to the regulations in existence prior to April 2001. The Foreign Investment Contract grants the depositary and the holders of the ADSs access to the Formal Exchange Market, which permits the depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of the ADSs. The Foreign Investment Contract also permits ADS holders to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility, or that have been received free of payment as a consequence of spin offs, mergers, capital increases, wind-ups, share dividends or preemptive rights transfers, enabling them to acquire the foreign currency necessary to repatriate earnings from such investments. Pursuant to Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract cannot be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank, and there are judicial precedents (although not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that contracts of this type may not be abrogated by future legislative changes or resolutions of the Advisory Council of the Central Bank. Holders of shares of our common stock, except for shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS facility or received in the manner described above, are not entitled to the benefits of the Foreign Investment Contract, may not have access to the Formal Exchange Market, and may have restrictions on their ability to repatriate investments in shares of our common stock and earnings therefrom. Holders of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. ADS holders may not be able to effect service of process on, or enforce judgments or bring original actions against, us, our directors or our executive officers, which may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to seek relief against us. We are a Chilean corporation. None of our directors are residents of the United States and most of our executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for ADS holders to effect service of process outside Chile upon us or our directors and executive officers or to bring an action against us or such persons in the United States or Chile to enforce liabilities based on U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for ADS holders to enforce in the United States or in Chilean courts money judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. If a U.S. court grants a final money judgment in an action based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, enforceability of this money judgment in Chile will be subject to the obtaining of the relevant "exequatur" (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) according to Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant and that 20 enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. We cannot assure you of the accuracy or comparability of facts, forecasts and statistics contained in this report with respect to Chile, its economy and global banking industries. Facts, forecasts and statistics in this document relating to Chile, Chile’s economy and Chilean global banking industries, including market share information, are derived form various official and other publicly available sources generally believed to be reliable. However, we cannot guarantee the quality and reliability of such official and other sources of materials. In addition, these facts, forecasts and statistics have not been independently verified by us and, therefore, we make no representation as to the accuracy of such facts, forecasts and statistics, which may not be consistent with other information compiled within or outside of Chile and may not be complete or up to date. We have taken reasonable care in reproducing or extracting the information from such sources. However, because of possible flawed or ineffective methodologies underlying the published information or discrepancies between the published information and market practice and other problems, these facts, forecasts or statistics may be inaccurate and may not be comparable from period to period or to facts, forecasts or statistics produced for other economies, and you should not unduly rely upon them. Risks Relating to our ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. The ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE. The common stock is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Chile Electronic Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Exchange, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Stock Exchanges, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. At December 31, 2006, we had 188,446,126,794 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. According to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on one or more Chilean Stock Exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. In addition, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it deems necessary. Although the common stock is traded on the Chilean Stock Exchanges, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for the common stock will continue. Approximately 23.09% of our outstanding common stock is held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Banco Santander Central Hispano S.A., to which we refer as Banco Santander Central Hispano, and its affiliates), including our shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Companies Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. 21 Since we are not obligated to elect to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available, the depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or bylaws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. ITEM 