ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors describe various risks that may affect our business, financial condition and operations. Increases in prices and reduced availability of key raw materials such as steel, aluminum and zinc will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. Hot rolled steel coil and other carbon steel products have historically constituted approximately one-third of the cost of manufacturing our products. We also use large quantities of aluminum for lighting structures and zinc for the galvanization of most of our steel products. The markets for the commodities that we use in our manufacturing processes can be volatile. The following factors increase the cost and reduce the availability of steel, aluminum and zinc for us: •increased demand, which occurs when other industries purchase greater quantities of these commodities at times when we require more steel, aluminum and zinc for manufacturing, which can result in higher prices and lengthen the time it takes to receive material from suppliers; •increased freight costs, because our manufacturing sites are usually not located near the major steel, aluminum and zinc manufacturers; •lower production levels of these commodities, due to reduced production capacities or shortages of materials needed to produce these commodities (such as coke and scrap steel for the production of steel) which could result in reduced supplies of these commodities, higher costs for us and increased lead times to acquire material; •lower inventory levels at suppliers when major steel users, such as the automobile manufacturers, increase their orders, which can reduce available inventory for us to meet our requirements; •increased cost of major inputs, such as scrap steel, coke, iron ore and energy; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can impact the relative cost of these commodities, which may affect the cost effectiveness of imported materials and limit our options in acquiring these commodities; and •international trade disputes, import duties and quotas, since we import some steel for our domestic and foreign manufacturing facilities. Increases in the selling prices of our products may not fully recover additional steel, aluminum and zinc costs and generally lag increases in our costs of these commodities. Consequently, an increase in steel, aluminum and zinc prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. Rising steel prices in 2010 and 2011 put pressure on gross profit margins, especially in our Engineered Infrastructure Products and Utility Support Structures segments. In both of these segments, the elapsed time between the quotation of a sales order and the manufacturing of the product ordered can be several months. As some of these sales are fixed price contracts, rapid increases in steel costs likely will result in lower operating income in these businesses. We believe the volatility over the past several years was due to significant increases in global steel production and consumption (especially in rapidly growing economies, such as China and India). The strong global demand for steel led to rapidly rising costs in key steel-making materials (such as coke, iron ore and scrap steel), thereby raising prices to companies that manufacture products from steel. Under such circumstances, steel supplies may become tighter and impact our ability to acquire steel and meet customer requirements on a timely basis. The speed with which steel suppliers impose price increases on us may prevent us from fully recovering these price increases and result in reduced operating margins, particularly in our lighting and traffic and utility businesses. 12 Table of Contents Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. Our costs of transportation and heating will increase if energy costs rise, which may occur due to additional energy usage caused by severe winter weather conditions and higher oil, gasoline and natural gas prices. Our galvanizing operations are susceptible to fluctuations in natural gas prices because we heat our processing tanks with natural gas. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our increased operating costs through sales price increases without reducing demand for our products. While we hedge a portion of our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts, increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. Current negative economic conditions could adversely affect our results The continuing uncertainties and softness in major economies (such as the European Union nations) and an apprehension among consumers may negatively impact the markets we serve in all of our operating segments. Additionally, unlike the cyclical downturns discussed below which may impact only one of our markets at a time, the current negative economic conditions may affect most or all of the markets we serve at the same time, reducing demand for our products and adversely affecting our operating results. These economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, which could affect our ability to secure raw materials and components to meet our customers' demand for our products. The ultimate consumers of our products operate in cyclical industries that have been subject to significant downturns which have adversely impacted our sales in the past and may again in the future. Our sales are sensitive to the market conditions present in the industries in which the ultimate consumers of our products operate, which in some cases have been highly cyclical and subject to substantial downturns. For example, a significant portion of our sales of support structures is to the electric utility industry. Our sales to the U.S. electric utility industry were over $500 million in 2011. Purchases of our products are deferrable to the extent that utilities may reduce capital expenditures for reasons such as unfavorable regulatory environments, a slow U.S. economy or financing constraints. In the event of weakness in the demand for utility structures due to reduced or delayed spending for electrical generation and transmission projects, our sales and operating income likely will decrease. The end users of our mechanized irrigation equipment are farmers and, as a result, sales of those products are affected by economic changes within the agriculture industry, particularly the level of farm income. In 2009, lower levels of farm income resulted in reduced demand for our mechanized irrigation and tubing products. Farm income decreases when commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields, government subsidies and export levels decrease. In addition, weather conditions, such as extreme drought may result in reduced availability of water for irrigation, and can affect farmers' buying decisions. Farm income can also decrease as farmers' operating costs increase. Increases in oil and natural gas prices result in higher costs of energy and nitrogen-based fertilizer (which uses natural gas as a major ingredient). Furthermore, uncertainty as to future government agricultural policies may cause indecision on the part of farmers. The status and trend of government farm supports, financing aids and policies regarding the ability to use water for agricultural irrigation can affect the demand for our irrigation equipment. In the United States, certain parts of the country are considering policies that would restrict usage of water for irrigation. All of these factors may cause farmers to delay capital expenditures for farm equipment. Consequently, downturns in the agricultural industry will likely result in a slower, and possibly a negative, rate of growth in irrigation equipment and tubing sales. However, as the farm economy is cyclical, positive trends in these factors may results in stronger sales of irrigation and tubing sales. In 2011, favorable farm commodity prices and strong net farm income contributed to record demand for mechanized irrigation equipment sales. 13 Table of Contents We have also experienced cyclical demand for those of our products that we sell to the wireless communications industry. Sales of wireless structures to wireless carriers and build-to-suit companies that serve the wireless communications industry have historically been cyclical. These customers may elect to curtail spending on new structures to focus on cash flow and capital management. Weak market conditions have led to competitive pricing in recent years, putting pressure on our profit margins on sales to this industry. Changes in the competitive structure of the wireless industry, due to industry consolidation or reorganization, may interrupt capital plans of the wireless carriers as they assess their networks. As a result of the cyclical nature of these markets, we have experienced, and in the future we may experience, significant fluctuations in our sales and operating income with respect to a substantial portion of our total product offering, and such fluctuations could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Demand for our infrastructure products and coating services is highly dependent upon the overall level of infrastructure spending. We manufacture and distribute engineered infrastructure products for lighting and traffic, utility and other specialty applications. Our Coatings segments serve many construction-related industries. Because these products are used primarily in infrastructure construction, sales in these businesses are highly correlated with the level of construction activity, which historically has been cyclical. Construction activity by our private and government customers is impacted by and can decline because of, among other things: •weakness in the general economy, which may negatively affect tax revenues, resulting in reduced funds available for construction; •interest rate increases, which increase the cost of construction financing; and •adverse weather conditions which slow construction activity. The current economic uncertainty and slowness in the United States and Europe will have some negative effect on our business. In our North American lighting product line, some of our lighting structure sales are for new residential and commercial areas. As residential and commercial construction remains weak, we have experienced some negative impact on our light pole sales to these markets. In a broader sense, in the event of an overall downturn in the economies in Europe or China, we may experience decreased demand if our customers have difficulty securing credit for their purchases from us. In addition, sales in our Engineered Infrastructure Products segment, particularly our lighting and traffic products, are highly dependent upon federal, state, local and foreign government spending on infrastructure development projects, such as the U.S. federal highway program. The level of spending on such projects may decline for a number of reasons beyond our control, including, among other things, budgetary constraints affecting government spending generally or transportation agencies in particular, decreases in tax revenues and changes in the political climate, including legislative delays, with respect to infrastructure appropriations. For instance, the lack of long-term U.S. federal highway spending legislation has had a negative impact on our sales in this market. A substantial reduction in the level of government appropriations for infrastructure projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. We may lose some of our foreign investment or our foreign sales and profits may be reduced because of risks of doing business in foreign markets. We are an international manufacturing company with operations around the world. At December 31, 2011, we operated over 90 manufacturing plants, located on six continents, and sold our 14 Table of Contents products in more than 100 countries. In 2011, approximately 44% of our total sales were either sold in markets or produced by our manufacturing plants outside of North America. We have operations in geographic markets that have recently experienced political instability, such as the Middle East, and economic uncertainty, such as Western Europe. We also have a significant manufacturing presence in Australia, Europe and China. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales into the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our foreign business operations and our foreign sales and profits are subject to the following potential risks: •political and economic instability where we have foreign business operations, resulting in the reduction of the value of, or the loss of, our investment; •recessions in economies of countries in which we have business operations, decreasing our international sales; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing our foreign operations, increasing our foreign operating costs and decreasing profits; •difficulties in enforcing our rights outside the United States for patents on our manufacturing machinery, poles and irrigation designs; •increases in tariffs, export controls, taxes and other trade barriers reducing our international sales and our profit on these sales; and •acts of war or terrorism. As a result, we may lose some of our foreign investment or our foreign sales and profits may be materially reduced because of risks of doing business in foreign markets. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our international sales, which can negatively impact our reported earnings. We sell our products in many countries around the world. Approximately 44% of our fiscal 2011 sales were generated by export demand or foreign markets and are often made in foreign currencies, mainly the Australian dollar, euro, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi and South African rand. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had and will continue to have an impact on our reported earnings. If the U.S. dollar weakens or strengthens versus the foreign currencies mentioned above, the result will be an increase or decrease in our reported sales and earnings, respectively. Currency fluctuations have affected our financial performance in the past and may affect our financial performance in any given period. In cases where local currencies are strong, the relative cost of goods imported from outside our country of operation becomes lower and affects our ability to compete profitably in our home markets. We experienced increased pricing competition in our access systems product line in Australia in 2011, due in part to the strong Australian dollar and resulting competition from companies outside of Australia. We also face risks arising from the imposition of foreign exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. We face strong competition in our markets. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Our competitors include companies who provide the technologies that we provide as well as companies who 15 Table of Contents provide competing technologies, such as drip irrigation. Our competitors include international, national, and local manufacturers, some of whom may have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do, or greater penetration in or familiarity with a particular geographic market than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors, particularly with respect to our utility and wireless communication product lines, have sought bankruptcy protection in recent years, and may emerge with reduced debt service obligations, which could allow them to operate at pricing levels that put pressures on our margins. Some of our customers have moved manufacturing operations or product sourcing overseas, which can negatively impact our sales of galvanizing and anodizing services. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, product development and customer service, and we may need to reduce our prices, particularly with respect to customers in industries that are experiencing downturns. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in each of the markets that we serve. We could incur substantial costs as the result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or with the permits required for our operations, could result in fines or civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, and investigation and cleanup costs. Potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with environmental laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations. In addition, from time to time we have been named as a potentially responsible party under Superfund or similar state laws. While we are not aware of any contaminated sites that are not provided for in our financial statements, including third-party sites, at which we may have material obligations, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these sites could result in significant liability beyond amounts provided for in our financial statements. We may not realize the improved operating results that we anticipate from acquisitions we may make in the future, and we may experience difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses or may inherit significant liabilities related to such businesses. We explore opportunities to acquire businesses that we believe are related to our core competencies from time to time, some of which may be material to us. We expect such acquisitions will produce operating results better than those historically experienced or presently expected to be experienced in the future by us in the absence of the acquisition. We cannot provide assurance that this assumption will prove correct with respect to any acquisition. Any future acquisitions may present significant challenges for our management due to the time and resources required to properly integrate management, employees, information systems, accounting controls, personnel and administrative functions of the acquired business with those of Valmont and to manage the combined company on a going forward basis. We may not be able to completely integrate and streamline overlapping functions or, if such activities are successfully accomplished, such integration may be more costly to accomplish than presently contemplated. We may also have difficulty in successfully integrating the product offerings of Valmont and acquired businesses to improve our collective product offering. Our efforts to integrate acquired businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions. In addition, the process of integrating acquired businesses could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities 16 Table of Contents of our existing business. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the Delta businesses could adversely impact our business, results of operations and liquidity, and the benefits we anticipate may never materialize. These factors are relevant to any acquisition we undertake. In addition, although we conduct reviews of businesses we acquire, we may be subject to unexpected claims or liabilities, including environmental cleanup costs, as a result of these acquisitions. Such claims or liabilities could be costly to defend or resolve and be material in amount, and thus could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and liquidity. We have, from time to time, maintained a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, which could impair our ability to operate our business and react to changes in our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $486 million of total indebtedness outstanding and our ratio of total interest-bearing debt to shareholders' equity was 41%. We had $261 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2011. We normally borrow money to make business acquisitions and major capital expenditures. From time to time, our borrowings have been significant. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements could be affected and any failure to comply with the requirements, including significant financial and other restrictive covenants, of any of our debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to make interest and principal payments and will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, or general corporate and other purposes, including possible future acquisitions that we believe would be beneficial to our business; •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; •we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; and •our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business prospects. The restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business, or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. These covenants may prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise. A large share of our consolidated cash balances are outside the United States and most of our interest-bearing debt is carried by U.S. entities. In the event that we would have to repatriate cash from international operations to meet cash needs in the U.S., we are likely to incur significant income tax expenses to repatriate that cash. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and 17 Table of Contents in a default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our other debt agreements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are favorable to us. We assumed an underfunded pension liability as part of the Delta acquisition and the combined company may be required to increase funding of the plan and/or be subject to restrictions on the use of excess cash. Delta is the sponsor of a defined benefit pension plan that, as of December 31, 2011, covered approximately 7,000 members in the United Kingdom. All of these members are inactive or retired former Delta employees. At December 31, 2011, this plan was, for accounting purposes, underfunded by approximately £44.1 million ($68.0 million). Although this underfunded position and the current agreement with the trustees of the pension plan for annual funding until March 31, 2018 of approximately £6.3 million ($9.7 million) in respect of the funding shortfall and approximately £1.0 million ($1.5 million) in respect of administrative expenses were considered in determining the offer price for Delta shares, the underfunded position may adversely affect the combined company as follows: •Laws and regulations normally require a new funding plan to be agreed every three years, with the next few funding plans to be agreed with the plan trustees by June 30, 2013. Changes in actuarial assumptions, including future discount, inflation and interest rates, investment returns and mortality rates, may increase the underfunded position of the pension plan and cause the combined company to increase its funding levels in the pension plan to cover underfunded liabilities. •The pension plan is regulated in the United Kingdom and trustees represent the interests of covered workers. Laws and regulations could create an immediate funding obligation to the pension plan which could be significantly greater than the £44.1 million ($68.0 million) assumed for accounting purposes as of December 31, 2011 and calculated by reference to the cost of buying out liabilities on the insurance market, and could impact the ability to use Delta's existing cash or the combined company's future excess cash to grow the business or finance other obligations. The use of Delta's cash and future cash flows beyond the operation of Delta's business or the satisfaction of Delta's obligations would require negotiations with the trustees and regulators. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 