Risk Factors – Risks Related to our Israeli Operations. Trade Agreements Israel is a member of the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation. Israel also is a party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which provides for reciprocal lowering of trade barriers among its members. In addition, Israel has been granted preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences from the United States, Australia, Canada and Japan. These preferences allow Israel to export products covered by such programs either duty-free or at reduced tariffs. Israel and the European Community are parties to a Free Trade Agreement that provides some advantages for Israeli exports to most European countries and requires Israel to lower its tariffs on imports from these countries over a number of years. Israel and the United States entered into an agreement to establish a Free Trade Area that eliminates tariff and some non-tariff barriers on most trade between the two countries. An agreement between Israel and the European Free Trade Association, which includes Austria, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein, established a free-trade zone between Israel and those nations. Chief Scientist and (OCS) Investment Center Funding The Government of Israel, through the OCS and the Israel Investment Center (the Investment Center), encourages research and development projects oriented towards export products and participates in the funding of such projects. Under the terms currently applying to OCS funding, companies receiving funding must pay the Israeli Government a royalty of usually 2% to 5% of the sales of products developed from a project funded by the OCS. These payments start with the beginning of sales of such products and typically end when 100% of the dollar value of the grant is repaid. For grants provided starting in 1999, the recipient must also pay interest payments to the OCS on the amount of the grant. The annual interest payment rate is LIBOR. The terms of Israeli Government participation also require that the manufacture of products developed with government grants be performed in Israel, unless a special approval has been granted. Separate Israeli Government consent is required to transfer to third parties technologies developed through projects in which the Government participates. In 2002, Elop reached agreement with the OCS to join an OCS initiative applicable to large, research and development intensive Israeli companies. This initiative allows participating companies to receive OCS funding for generic research and development without the need for payment of future royalties. However, as a condition to joining the initiative, companies are required to reach agreement with the OCS on an unconditional prepayment for existing OCS funded programs in exchange for a release by the OCS from all obligations. Under Elop’s agreement with the OCS, Elop is paying $10.6 million over a five-year period beginning in 2002 in exchange for a release of Elop’s obligations to pay further royalties. The Investment Center promotes Israeli export products and increased industrialization of peripheral areas through investment in industrial infrastructure. The Investment Center either provides grants for qualified projects or provides tax benefits for qualified industrial investments by Israeli companies. In 2005, the regulations relating to the tax benefit programs of the Investment Center were revised to provide for review and approval of the tax benefit by the Israel Tax Authority only after a company has made the applicable investment. 64 Israeli Labor Laws. Our employees in Israel are subject to Israeli labor laws. Some employees are also affected by some provisions of collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut — General Federation of Labor in Israel and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations, which includes the Industrialists’ Association. These labor laws and collective bargaining provisions mainly concern the length of the work day, minimum daily wages for professional workers, insurance for work-related accidents, procedures for dismissing certain employees, determination of severance pay and other conditions of employment. Severance Pay. Under Israeli law, our Israeli companies are required to make severance payments to terminated Israeli employees, other than in some cases of termination for cause. The severance reserve is calculated based on the employee’s last salary and period of employment. A portion of the severance pay and pension obligation is covered by payment of premiums to insurance companies under approved plans and to pension funds. The deposits presented in the balance sheet include profits accumulated to the balance sheet date. The amounts deposited may be withdrawn only after fulfillment of the obligations under the Israeli laws relating to severance pay. National Insurance Institute. Israeli employees and employers are required to pay predetermined sums to the National Insurance Institute, which is similar to the U.S. Social Security Administration. These amounts also include payments for national health insurance. As of December 31, 2005, the payments to the National Insurance Institute were equal to approximately 16.3% of wages. In 2006, the payments were increased to approximately 17.7% of wages, subject to a cap if an employee’s monthly wages exceed a specified amount. The employee contributes approximately 66% and the employer contributes approximately 34%. Enforcement of Judgments Israeli courts may enforce U.S. and other foreign jurisdiction final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters, obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction. This enforcement is made according to the private international law rules currently applicable in Israel, which recognize and enforce similar Israeli judgments, provided that: • adequate service of process has been made and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; • the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; • an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court; and • the judgment is no longer subject to a right of appeal. Foreign judgments enforced by Israeli courts generally will be payable in Israeli currency. The usual practice in Israel in an action to recover an amount in a non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to provide for payment of the equivalent amount in Israeli currency at the exchange rate in effect on the judgment date. Under existing Israeli law, a foreign judgment payable in foreign currency may be paid in Israeli currency at the foreign currency’s exchange rate on the payment date or in foreign currency. Until collection, an Israeli court judgment stated in Israeli currency will ordinarily be linked to the Israeli Consumer Price Index (CPI) plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli regulations) in effect at that time. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments None 65 Item 5. Operating Financial Review and Prospects – Management’s Discussion and Analysis The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes appearing in Item 18 below. General Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates For a description of our significant accounting policies see below – Item 18. Financial Statements – Note 2 (Significant Accounting Policies). Our results of operations and financial condition are based on the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to apply accounting policies for certain critical accounting areas as well as make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Significant changes in assumptions or conditions and changes in critical accounting policies could materially impact our operating results and financial condition. We believe our most critical accounting policies relate to: • Revenue Recognition • Business Combinations and Purchase Price Allocation • Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets • Other-Than-Temporary Decline in Value of Investments in Investee Companies • Useful Life of Long-Lived Assets Revenue Recognition We generate revenues mainly from long-term contracts involving the design, development, manufacture and integration of defense systems and products. Revenues from long-term contracts are recognized based on Statement of Position 81-1 “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts” (SOP 81-1) according to which revenues are recognized on the percentage of completion basis. Sales under long-term fixed-price contracts which provide for a substantial level of development efforts in relation to total contract efforts are recorded using the cost-to-cost method of accounting as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract and recognizing revenues. According to this method, sales and profits are recorded based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion. In certain circumstances, when measuring progress toward completion, we consider other factors, such as achievement of performance milestones. Sales and anticipated profit under long-term fixed-price production type contracts are recorded on a percentage of completion basis, using the units-of-delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract and recognizing revenues. 66 Sales and anticipated profit under long-term fixed-price contracts that involve both development and production are recorded on a percentage of completion basis, using the cost-to-cost method and units-of-delivery method, as applicable. In addition, when measuring progress toward completion under the development portion of a contract, we usually consider other factors, such as achievement of performance milestones. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting requires management to estimate the cost and gross profit margin for each individual contract. Estimated gross profit or loss from long-term contracts may change due to changes in estimates resulting from differences between actual performance and original estimated forecasts. Such changes in estimated gross profit are recorded in results of operations when they are reasonably determinable by management, on a cumulative catch-up basis. Anticipated losses on contracts are charged to earnings when determined to be probable. Sales under cost-reimbursement-type contracts are recorded as costs are incurred. Applicable estimated profits are included in earnings in the proportion that incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. Amounts representing contract change orders, claims or other items are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and realization is probable. Penalties and awards applicable to performance of contracts are considered in estimating sales and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. We believe that the use of the percentage of completion method is appropriate since the Group has the ability to make reasonably dependable estimates of the extent of progress towards completion, contract revenues and contract costs. In addition, contracts executed include provisions that clearly specify the enforceable rights regarding services to be provided and received by the parties to the contracts, the consideration to be exchanged and the manner and terms of settlement. In all cases the Group expects to perform its contractual obligations, and its customers are expected to satisfy their obligations under the contract. In cases where the contract involves the delivery of products and performance of services, we follow the guidelines specified in EITF 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” in order to allocate the contract fees between the products accounted for under SOP 81-1 and the services. Management reviews periodically the estimates of progress towards completion and project costs. These estimates are determined based on engineering estimates and past experience, by personnel having the appropriate authority and expertise to make reasonable estimates of the related costs. Such engineering estimates are reviewed periodically for each specific contract by professional personnel from various disciplines within the organization. These estimates take into consideration the probability of achievement of certain milestones, as well as other factors that might impact the contract’s completion. A number of internal and external factors affect out cost estimates, including labor rates, estimated future material prices, revised estimates of uncompleted work, efficiency variances, linkage to indices and exchange rates, customer specifications and testing requirement changes. If any of the above factors were to change, or if different assumptions were used in estimating progress cost and measuring progress towards completion, it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported in our consolidated financial statements. 67 Business Combinations and Purchase Price Allocation Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, under which the total purchase price is allocated to proportional interest in the acquired company’s assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values, and the remainder, if any, is attributed to goodwill. The aggregate purchase price of any investment accounted for under either the consolidation or the equity method of accounting is being allocated to identifiable net assets, intangible assets other than goodwill, in-process research and development (IPR&D) activities, and to goodwill. The amount allocated to IPR&D is being charged immediately to our results of operations in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, “Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method” (FIN 4). The amounts allocated to finite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized on a straight-line basis over their weighted average expected useful life. Estimating the fair value of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, mainly with respect to intangible assets. While there are a number of different methods for estimating the value of intangibles acquired, the primary method we use is the discounted cash flow approach. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the discounted cash flow approach include projected future cash flows, including their timing, a discount rate reflecting the risk inherent in the future cash flows and a terminal growth rate. Another area which requires judgment which can impact our results of operations is estimating the expected useful lives of the intangible assets. To the extent intangible assets are ascribed with longer useful lives, there may be less amortization expenses recorded in any given period. As we and our Group companies operate in industries which are extremely competitive, the value of the intangible assets, including goodwill and their respective useful lives are exposed to future adverse changes which can result in a charge to our results of operations. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets Consistent with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill is not amortized and is tested at least annually for impairment. According to SFAS 142, an impairment loss will be recognized when the carrying value of the goodwill is not recoverable or exceeds its fair value. We conduct a goodwill impairment review at least annually and on an interim basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or expected future operating results and significant negative industry or economic trends. We test for impairment at a level referred to as a reporting unit. Determining fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could have an impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized. To determine fair value, we may use a number of valuation methods. The methods commonly used to value the fair value of reporting units are the Income, Market and Cost approaches. Our reported units’ fair market value was estimated using two valuation methodologies: the Income Approach and the Market Approach. As mentioned above, these approaches use estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate and terminal growth rate. Using different assumptions could result in different results. 68 As of December 31, 2005, our goodwill amounted to $64 million. We tested our goodwill as of December 31, 2005 and concluded that no impairment loss existed with respect to goodwill. Consistent with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment and assess their recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate that carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If an asset is considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. In the evaluation of fair value, we use significant estimates and assumptions such as projected future cash flows which are subject to high degree of judgment. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. In the valuation of fair value we use judgment as to which is the most appropriate method to use for measuring fair value and as to what assumptions to use in implementing the methodology chosen. As we operate in industries which are extremely competitive, changes in the assumptions and estimates may affect the carrying value of the intangible assets, and could result in an additional impairment charge to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, our long-lived assets amounted to $363.8 million, including $78.8 million in intangible assets, and we concluded that there were no indicators for impairment. Should future impairment tests we make determine that impairment has occurred in the value of our goodwill or long-lived assets, such impairment may have a material effect on our financial results in the period in which the impairment is determined. Other-Than-Temporary Decline in Value of Investments in Investee Companies At the end of each reported period we evaluate whether an other-than-temporary decline in the value of an investment in our investee companies has been sustained. This evaluation is judgmental in nature. If it has been determined that an investment has sustained an other-than-temporary decline in its fair value relative to its carrying value, the investment is written down to its fair value by a charge to our results of operations. An evaluation of fair value is dependent upon specific facts and circumstances. Factors that are considered by us in this determination include financial information (including, among others, budgets, business plans and financial statements) and independent appraisals, if available. Factors indicative of an other-than-temporary decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults, specific conditions affecting the investment, such as in the industry or in geographic area, and subsequent rounds of financing at an amount below the cost basis of the investment. This list is not all inclusive, and we weigh all quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an other-than-temporary decline in value of an investment has occurred. As we operate in industries which are extremely competitive, it is possible that our estimates could change in the near term, and there can be no assurance that an additional write-down or write-off of the carrying value will not be required in the future. In 2005 we recorded a write-down in the amount of approximately $5.4 million, with respect to ISI. See below “2005 Compared to 2004 — Other Expenses (Net)”. Useful Life of Long-Lived Assets Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Determining the useful life of such assets involves the use of estimates and judgments. In determining the useful life we take into account various factors such as the expected use of the assets, effects of obsolescence, competition, demand, changes in business, acquisitions and other economic factors. If our estimates change and the useful lives of such assets increase or decrease, it will affect our results of operations. Sarbanes-Oxley Act According to Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 an assessment, as of the end of the fiscal year, of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During 2005, we took steps to assure compliance of our documentation and internal controls over financial reporting with the guidelines stipulated in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We plan to continue with these steps during 2006. 69 Off-Balance Sheet and Other Long-Term Arrangements and Commitments Buy-Back. In connection with long-term projects in specific countries, Elbit Systems and some of our subsidiaries undertook to use our respective best efforts to make or facilitate purchases or investments in those countries at certain percentages (typically up to 100%) of the amount of the specific contract. Our obligations to make or facilitate third parties making such investments and purchases are subject to commercial conditions in the local market, typically without a specific financial penalty. The maximum aggregate undertaking as of December 31, 2005 amounted to $682 million to be performed over a period of up to ten years. In the opinion of management, the actual amount of the investments and purchases is anticipated to be less than that mentioned above, since certain investments and purchases can result in reducing the overall undertaking on more than a one-to-one basis. See above — Item 