ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our business and your investment in us. Deterioration of economic conditions could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. The recent volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our operations as follows: • The value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including our assets held in pension plans; • Financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers; and • It may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future. Additionally, we utilize hedges and other derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various interest rate risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in our earnings each period. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. We purchase the raw and intermediate materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. The majority of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives and minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate significantly, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. During the past three to four years, our raw material costs have increased significantly. When raw material costs increase, our profit margins are reduced unless and until we are able to pass along the increases to our customers through higher prices. If raw material costs continue to increase, and if we are unable to pass along, or are delayed in passing along, raw material cost increases to our customers, we will experience profit margin reductions. Many of our customers are in cyclical industries, which may affect the demand for our products. Many of our customers, especially for our industrial products, are in businesses and industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. In 2007 and 2008, the downward trend in the U.S. housing market negatively affected sales of our architectural paints and industrial coatings applied to new and existing homes and to consumer products for home use. Downward economic cycles affecting the industries of our customers will reduce sales of our products. When general economic conditions deteriorate, we may suffer reductions in our sales and profitability. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors may be larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. All aspects of the coatings and paints business are highly competitive. We face strong competitors in all areas of our business. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced margins for our products. Competitive pressures may not only impair our margins but may also impact our revenues and our growth. A number of our competitors are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could curtail price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending on marketing and sales, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Industry sources estimate that the top ten largest coatings manufacturers represent more than half of the world’s coatings sales. Our larger competitors may have more resources to finance acquisitions or internal growth in this competitive environment. Also, we buy our raw materials from large suppliers, primarily chemical companies. In many of our product lines, we then sell our finished goods to large customers, such as do-it-yourself home centers, large equipment manufacturers and can makers. Our larger competitors may have more resources or capabilities to conduct business with these large suppliers and large customers. Finally, many of our larger competitors operate businesses other than paints and coatings. These competitors may be better able to compete during industry downturns. 5 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our total debt, including notes payable, was $922.7 million at October 31, 2008. Our level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it: • may require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • could make us less attractive to prospective or existing customers or less able to fund potential acquisitions; and • may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to a competitor that may have lower indebtedness. Our strategy of growth through acquisitions may not be successful. Acquisitions have historically contributed significantly to the growth of our company. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and joint ventures. If we are successful in completing such acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits from the acquired companies or products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures or product liability; • unforeseen adjustments, charges and write-offs; • problems enforcing the indemnification obligations of sellers of businesses or joint venture partners for claims and liabilities; • unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, the acquired business; • difficulty in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • variability in financial information arising from the implementation of purchase price accounting; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses; and • challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses or the cost of acquired assets. Any of these factors may make it more difficult to repay our debt. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be able to identify, acquire and integrate successful strategic acquisitions in the future or be able to implement successfully our operating and growth strategies within our existing markets or with respect to any future product or geographic diversification efforts. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States. We and our joint ventures currently have production facilities, research and development facilities, and administrative and sales offices located outside the United States, including facilities and offices located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Thai-land, the United Kingdom and Vietnam. In 2008, revenues from products sold outside the United States accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales. We expect sales from international markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. Notwithstanding the benefits of geographic diversification, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • foreign operations may experience staffing difficulties and labor disputes; • transportation and other shipping costs may increase; • foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; • unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; 6 Table of Contents • our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic repercussions on a domestic, country specific or global level from terrorist activities and the response to such activities; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be burdensome. We have certain key customers. Our relationships with certain key customers are important to us. From 2006 through 2008, sales to our largest customer, Lowe’s Companies, Inc., have ranged from 16.0% to 17.6% of our total net sales. In 2008, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our total net sales. Although we sell various types of products through various channels of distribution, we believe that the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to Lowe’s Companies, Inc. could have a material adverse impact on us. Environmental laws and regulations affect our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us, including among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances, or otherwise relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and also require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances and violations of these laws and regulations can also result in fines and penalties. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of our facilities and properties, and have received notices under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our operations or former operations. We are also subject to the risk that new environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretation, could expand our potential liability by regulating additional substances or increasing our obligations with respect to the handling, disposal or remediation of regulated substances. In addition, our customers’ or consumers’ perceptions about the acceptability or potential environmental or health effects of certain substances could require us to invest additional amounts to develop products that exclude those substances. If we are unable to develop products that exclude those substances when and if required by our customers, we may experience reduced sales and profitability. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 