D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as all the other information presented in this Annual Report before investing in securities issued by us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 10 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Business Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect results of our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, with Banco del Estado, a public sector bank, with department stores and the larger supermarket chains that make consumer loans and sell other financial products to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the small and medium sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments are likely to decline. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from individuals and for small and medium sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, we cannot assure you that net interest margins will be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors (principally department stores and the larger supermarket chains) with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans and insurance brokerage. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products. For the time being, banks continue to be the main suppliers in Chile for leasing, factoring and mutual funds, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to, among other things, consolidation in the industry. We expect the trends of increased competition and consolidation to continue and result in the formation of new large financial groups. Consolidation, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. In addition, Law No. 19,769 allows insurance companies to participate and compete with banks in the residential mortgage and credit card businesses. Our allowances for impairment losses may not be adequate to cover our future actual losses to our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2007, our allowance for impairment losses on loans was Ch$232,766 million, and the ratio of our allowance for impairment losses to total loans was 1.73%. The amount of allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial conditions, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and legal and regulatory environment. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for impairment losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional provisions for impairment losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to individuals and small businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans, allowances for loan losses and charge-offs. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals (approximately 42.7% of the value of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2007) and, to a lesser extent, small and medium sized companies (those with annual sales of less than US$2.2 million) which comprised approximately 15.8% of the value of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2007. As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small companies and individuals. Small companies and individuals are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy than large corporations and high income individuals. In addition, at December 31, 2007, our residential mortgage loans, both, financed by mortgage bonds and otherwise totaled Ch$3,328,786 million, representing 24.7% of our total loans (27.1% of total loans excluding contingent loans. See “Item 5: F. Selected Statistical Information—Loan Portfolio” and “Item 5: F. Selected Statistical Information—Loans by Economic Activity” for a description and presentation of residential mortgages in the balance sheet). If the economic conditions and real estate market in Chile experience a significant downturn, our asset quality, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Economic activities in Chile may slow down in 11 Table of Contents 2008 given the volatility of international markets and the possible slow down of the world economic growth as a result of the credit crisis that is affecting the U.S. economy. At the same time, higher energy costs and a restrictive interest rate environment due to higher inflation could also negatively affect the economy. As a result of these factors, in the future we may experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher provisions for loan losses. There can be no assurance that the levels of past due loans and subsequent write offs will not be materially higher in the future. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. At December 31, 2007, our past due loans were Ch$116,654 million, and the ratio of our past due loans to total loans was 0.87%. For additional information on our asset quality, see “Item 5: F. Selected Statistical Information—Analysis of Substandard Loans and Amounts Past Due.” We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in level of non performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control. If such deterioration were to occur, it would materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. However, we may not have current information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law that may affect our ability to foreclose or liquidate residential mortgages granted to us by our customers if the affected real estate has been declared as “family property” by a court. Also, foreclosure will be extremely limited if any party using the real estate has filed with a court a petition requesting that such real estate be declared as family property. The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From December 31, 2002, to December 31, 2007, our aggregate loan portfolio (on an unconsolidated combined basis) grew by 45.6% in real terms to Ch$13,468,981 million (US$27.2 billion), while our consumer loan portfolio grew by 143.7% in nominal terms to Ch$2,003,125 million (US$4,040 million), excluding lines of credit and calculated in accordance with the loan classification system of the Superintendency of Banks. Because the method of classification of loans used by the Superintendency of Banks for its public information differs in minor respects from that used by us for internal accounting purposes, the foregoing figures may differ from the figures included in our financial statements. The further expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the consumer, small and mid sized companies and real estate segments) can be expected to expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of provisions for loan losses. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the historical growth rate. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increased in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. 12 Table of Contents The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the Superintendency of Banks, Dicom (a nationwide credit bureau) and other sources. Due to limitations on the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation may affect our results of operations. Inflation in Chile gained momentum in 2007. In 2007, inflation reached 7.8% compared to 2.6% in 2006. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our assets and liabilities are denominated in Chilean pesos, UF and foreign currencies. The UF is revalued in monthly cycles. On each day in the period beginning the tenth day of the current month through the ninth day of the succeeding month, the nominal peso value of the UF is indexed up (or down in the event of deflation) in order to reflect a proportional amount of the change in the Chilean Consumer Price Index during the prior calendar month. For more information regarding the UF see “Item 5: F. Selected Statistical Information—Average Balance Sheets, Income Earned from Interest-Earning Assets And Interest Paid on Interest Bearing Liabilities.” Although we currently benefit inflation in Chile, due to the current structure of our assets and liabilities (i.e., a significant portion of our loans are indexed to the inflation rate, but there are no corresponding features in deposits, or other funding sources that would increase the size of our funding base), there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and result of operations in the future will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, including from extended periods of inflation that adversely affect economic growth or periods of deflation. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest revenue. In 2007, net interest revenue represented 87.9% of our operating revenue. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest revenue or result in a decrease in customer’s demand for our loan or deposit products. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Any changes in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our future financial performance and the price of our securities. The following table shows the yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day notes as reported by the Central Bank of Chile at year end for the last five years. Year Period-end 90 day note (%) 2003 2.58 2004 2.32 2005 4.75 2006 5.10 2007 6.15 Source: Central Bank. 13 Table of Contents Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. The restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding. Customer deposits are our primary source of funding. At December 31, 2007, 79.5% of our customer deposits had remaining maturities of one year or less, or were payable on demand. A significant portion of our assets have longer maturities, resulting in a mismatch between the maturities of liabilities and the maturities of assets. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring high funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administrador de Fondos de Pension, an “AFP”) may allocate to a single issuer, which is currently 7% per fund managed by an AFP (including any securities issued by the issuer and any bank deposits with the issuer). If the exposure of an AFP to a single issuer exceeds the 7% limit, the AFP is required to reduce its exposure below the limit within three years. At December 31, 2007, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was approximately US$7.7 billion or 6.5% of their total assets, and the largest exposure of a single AFP to us was 7.2% of its total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. Recently approved legislation in Chile (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2) relaxed the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. In 2007, the limit on making investments abroad was increased from 30% to 45%. In 2009 this limit will increase to 60% and in 2011 it will reach 80%. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. At December 31, 2007, 32.7% of the Bank’s time deposits were from AFPs. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy. We are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of our risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of our total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. As a result of the merger between Old Santander-Chile and Santiago, we were required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk weighted assets ratio of 12%, which was reduced to 11% as of January 1, 2005. At December 31, 2007, the ratio of our basic capital to total assets, net of loan loss allowance, was 6.0%, and the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 12.2%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business; · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; · declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio; · changes in accounting rules; · and changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. In 2010, the Chilean banks will most likely adopt the guidelines set forth under Basel II with adjustments incorporated by the Superintendency of Banks. This should result in a different level of minimum capital 14 Table of Contents required to be maintained by the Bank. No assurance can be given that this will not have a material impact on the Bank’s capitalization ration. We may also be required to raise additional capital in the future in order to maintain our capital adequacy ratios above the minimum required levels. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited by numerous factors, including: our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; any necessary government regulatory approvals; our credit ratings; general market conditions for capital raising activities by commercial banks and other financial institutions; and domestic and international economic, political and other conditions. If we require additional capital in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, the Superintendency of Banks may increase the minimum capital adequacy requirements applicable to us. Accordingly, although we currently meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements, we may face difficulties in meeting these requirements in the future. If we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements, we may be required to take corrective actions. These measures could materially and adversely affect our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner, the growth of our loan portfolio and other risk weighted assets may be restricted, and we may face significant challenges in implementing our business strategy. As a result, our prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is highly dependant on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependant on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we do not operate all of our redundant systems on a real time basis and cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, or intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on timely basis could materially and adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Santander-Chile, like all large financial institutions, is exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Fraud or other misconduct by employees or third parties may be difficult to detect and prevent and could subject us to financial losses and sanctions imposed by governmental authorities as well as seriously harm our reputation. Although Santander-Chile maintains a system of operational controls, there can be no assurance that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements and interest rates and foreign exchange mismatches and market risks . During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Ley General de Bancos, Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 3 de 1997, or the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the Superintendency of Banks, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and the financial strength of the bank. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us, than those currently in effect. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank allows banks to pay interest on checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We must maintain higher regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets than other banks in Chile. The merger of Old Santander-Chile and Santiago required a special regulatory preapproval of the Superintendency of Banks, which was granted on May 16, 2002. The resolution granting this preapproval imposed a mandatory minimum regulatory capital to risk weighted assets ratio of 12% for the merged bank compared to the 8% minimum for other banks in Chile. Effective January 1, 2005, the Superintendency of Banks lowered our minimum regulatory capital to risk weighted assets ratio to 11%. Although we have not failed in the past to comply with our capital maintenance obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Beginning January 1, 2009, Chilean banks will adopt accounting standards more congruent with International Accounting Standards and we will be restating 2008 figures under these new accounting principles. Although the exact impact of this change is still under discussion, there can be no assurance that this will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operation. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations. We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines and other penalties in the future as a result of non compliance. If sanctions, fines and other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. We cannot assure you that the Chilean economy will continue to grow in the future or that those future developments in or affecting Chile’s exports will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Economic and political problems encountered by other countries may adversely affect the Chilean economy, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. The prices of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, are to varying degrees influenced by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in other parts of the world, mainly, the United States, Europe, China, Brazil and Argentina. A significant economic deterioration in one of these countries or regions could result in lower economic growth in Chile, lower loan growth, an increase our loan allowances, and therefore, this could affect our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. The recent cuts in gas exports from Argentina to Chile could also adversely affect economic growth in Chile as the prices of alternate sources of energy have risen strongly in recent periods and this may increase inflation rates in Chile. Chile is also involved in an international litigation with Peru regarding maritime borders. At December 31, 2007, approximately 3.1% of our loans were held abroad and 0.37% of our loans were comprised of loans to companies in Latin American countries. We cannot assure you that crisis and political uncertainty in other Latin American countries will not have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. Any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The peso has been subject to large devaluations and appreciations in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate exposure. In order to avoid material exchange rate exposure, we enter into forward exchange transactions. The following table shows the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar as reported by the Central Bank at year end for the last four years. Year Exchange rate (Ch$) Year-end Devaluation (Revaluation) (%) 2003 599.42 (15.9%) 2004 559.83 (6.6%) 2005 514.21 (8.1%) 2006 534.43 3.9% 2007 495.82 (7.2%) 2008 (as per June 11) 485.61 (2.1%) Source: Central Bank. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate exposure. Regulations that limit such exposures may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate risk will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate exposures, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs will be conducted in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our shares of common stock are received in Chilean pesos by the Depositary which then will convert such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the Depositary will be reduced. In addition, the Depositary will incur customary current conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. 17 Table of Contents Chile’s banking regulatory and capital markets environment is continually evolving and may change. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect the bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the banking sector and financial institutions are continually evolving and changing. In 2007 regulations governing the Chilean capital markets were approved (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II; also known as MK2). These modifications, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit in terms of regulatory capital that banks are allowed to grant unsecured loans to one individual or entity was increased to 10% of regulatory capital and 30% of the regulatory capital of the bank if the amount that exceeds said 10% corresponds to loans secured by collateral with an aggregate value equal to or higher than such excess. Previously, these limits were set at 5% and 25%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate segment increases as they are less constrained by this requirement. See “Item 3: Risk Factors—Risks Associated with Our Business—The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses.” In addition, changes in the investment limits abroad on behalf of Chilean pension funds and the modification to minimum capital requirements to be introduced in line with Basel II requirements may materially and adversely affect the bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 3: Risk Factors—Risks Associated with Our Business—Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. The restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding” and “—We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy.” A worsening of labor relations in the Chile could impact our business. Labor relations in industries such as the copper and salmon industry have worsened leading to prolonged work stoppage, which has affected their respective output. As of December 31, 2007, on a consolidated basis we had 9,174 employees of which 41.1% were unionized. In March 2007, a new collective bargaining agreement became effective that will expire on March 1, 2011, but this may be negotiated ahead of schedule if management and union agree to. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally enjoyed good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any downgrading of Chile debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may adversely affect our business, our future financial performance, stockholder’s equity and the price of our shares and ADSs. Our ratings are equivalent to the Chilean sovereign ratings. In 2007, Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s improved their rating for the Republic of Chile and also for us. Any adverse revisions to Chile’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and our business, future financial performance, stockholder’s equity and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Chilean GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to certain matters that are inherently uncertain. The consolidated financial statements include various estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, estimates of the fair value of certain financial instruments, the selection of useful lives of certain assets and the valuation and recoverability of goodwill and deferred taxes. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing (mark-to-market) basis. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results in future periods could differ from those produced by such estimates and assumptions, and if these differences were significant enough, our reported results of operations would be affected materially. Accounting, financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Chile differ from those in the United States. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to 18 Table of Contents shareholders of a U.S. financial institution. There are also material differences between Chilean and U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Superintendency of Banks unaudited unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean GAAP and the rules of the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis. Such disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open or publicly listed companies such as us, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some material respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within Chile’s Formal Exchange Market. The ADSs are subject to a contract, dated May 17, 1994, among the Depositary, us and the Central Bank (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that remains in full force and effect. The ADSs continue to be governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Contract subject to the regulations in existence prior to April 2001. The Foreign Investment Contract grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADSs access to the Formal Exchange Market, which permits the Depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of the ADSs. The Foreign Investment Contract also permits ADS holders to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility, or that have been received free of payment as a consequence of spin offs, mergers, capital increases, wind ups, share dividends or preemptive rights transfers, enabling them to acquire the foreign currency necessary to repatriate earnings from such investments. Pursuant to Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract cannot be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank, and there are judicial precedents (although not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that contracts of this type may not be abrogated by future legislative changes or resolutions of the Advisory Council of the Central Bank. Holders of shares of our common stock, except for shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS facility or received in the manner described above, are not entitled to the benefits of the Foreign Investment Contract, may not have access to the Formal Exchange Market, and may have restrictions on their ability to repatriate investments in shares of our common stock and earnings therefrom. 19 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the Depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the Depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. ADS holders may not be able to effect service of process on, or enforce judgments or bring original actions against, us, our directors or our executive officers, which may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to seek relief against us. We are a Chilean corporation. None of our directors are residents of the United States and most of our executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for ADS holders to effect service of process outside Chile upon us or our directors and executive officers or to bring an action against us or such persons in the United States or Chile to enforce liabilities based on U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for ADS holders to enforce in the United States or in Chilean courts money judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. If a U.S. court grants a final money judgment in an action based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, enforceability of this money judgment in Chile will be subject to the obtaining of the relevant "exequatur" (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) according to Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. We cannot assure you of the accuracy or comparability of facts, forecasts and statistics contained in this report with respect to Chile, its economy and global banking industries. Facts, forecasts and statistics in this document relating to Chile, Chile’s economy and Chilean global banking industries, including market share information, are derived from various official and other publicly available sources generally believed to be reliable. However, we cannot guarantee the quality and reliability of such official and other sources of materials. In addition, these facts, forecasts and statistics have not been independently verified by us and, therefore, we make no representation as to the accuracy of such facts, forecasts and statistics, which may not be consistent with other information compiled within or outside of Chile and may not be complete or up to date. We have taken reasonable care in reproducing or extracting the information from such sources. However, because of possible flawed or ineffective methodologies underlying the published information or discrepancies between the published information and market practice and other problems, these facts, forecasts or statistics may be inaccurate and may not be comparable from period to period or to facts, forecasts or statistics produced for other economies, and you should not unduly rely upon them. Risks Relating to our ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. The ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE. The common stock is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Chile Electronic Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Exchange, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Stock Exchanges, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. At December 31, 2007, we had 188,446,126,794 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. According to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on one or more Chilean Stock Exchanges for up to 30 20 Table of Contents days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. In addition, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it deems necessary. Although the common stock is traded on the Chilean Stock Exchanges, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for the common stock will continue. Approximately 23.09% of our outstanding common stock is held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Banco Santander Spain and its affiliates), including our shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Companies Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to elect to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available, the Depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. 