D. RISK FACTORS We have made some statements in this annual report about our future activities that may or may not come true. Factors, over which we have no or limited control, may affect our actual performance and results of operations and may cause them to be different from what we present to you in this Annual Report. Our statements in this annual report are accurate to the best of our knowledge and belief as of the date this document is filed with the SEC. We take no responsibility to publicly update or revise such statements. The Company engages, directly or indirectly, mainly in the following areas: initiation, construction, operation, management and sale of commercial and entertainment centers in Israel, in Central and Eastern Europe and in India; hotels ownership, primarily in major European cities, as well as operation, management and sale of same; investments in the research and development, production and marketing of magnetic resonance imaging guided focused ultrasound treatment equipment; distributing and marketing of women’s fashion and accessories; and venture-capital investments. The following is a list of the material risk factors that affect our business and our results of operation. We cannot predict nor can we asses the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent which any factor, or a combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. RISKS RELATING TO THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS Suitable locations are critical to the success of a shopping and entertainment center The choice of suitable locations for the development of shopping and entertainment center projects is an important factor in the success of the individual projects. Ideally, these sites should be located: (i) within the city center, with well-developed transportation infrastructure (road and rail) located in close proximity to facilitate customer access; and (ii) within local areas with sufficient population to support the centers. If we are not able to find sites in the target cities which meet these criteria, either at all or at viable prices, this may materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. Zoning restriction and local opposition can delay or preclude construction of a center. Sites which meet our criteria must be zoned for commercial activities of the type contained in shopping and entertainment centers. In instances where the existing zoning is not suitable or in which the zoning has yet to be determined, we will apply for the required zoning classifications. This procedure may be protracted, particularly in countries where the bureaucracy is cumbersome and inefficient, and we cannot be certain that the process of obtaining proper zoning will be completed with sufficient speed to enable the centers to open ahead of the competition or at all. Opposition by local residents to zoning and/or building permit applications may also cause considerable delays. Certain of our site acquisitions are conditioned upon the grant of a building permit. In addition, arbitrary changes to applicable zoning may jeopardize projects that have already commenced. Therefore, if we cannot receive zoning approvals or if the procedures for the receipt of such zoning approvals are delayed, our cost will increase which will have an adverse affect on our business. 7 We depend on contractors and subcontractors to construct our centers. We rely on subcontractors for all of our construction and development activities. If we cannot enter into subcontracting arrangements on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will incur additional costs which will have an adverse affect on our business. The competition for the services of quality contractors and subcontractors may cause delays in construction, thus exposing us to a loss of our competitive advantage. Subcontracting arrangements may be on less favorable terms than would otherwise be available, which may result in increased development and construction costs. By relying on subcontractors, we become subject to a number of risks relating to these entities, such as quality of performance, varied work ethics, performance delays, construction defects and the financial stability of the subcontractors. A shortage of workers would have a detrimental effect on us and our subcontractors and, as a result, on our ability to conclude construction phases on time and within budget. We generally require our subcontractors to provide bank guarantees in our favor to financially secure their performance. In the event the subcontractor fails to perform, the bank guarantees provide for a monetary payment to us. The guarantees do not, however, obligate the subcontractors to complete the project and may not adequately cover our costs of completing the project or our lost profits during the period while alternative means of completing the project are sought. Delays in the completion of construction projects could affect our success. An important element in the success of our shopping and entertainment center projects is the short construction time (generally 12 to 18 months from the receipt of building permits, depending on the size of the project), and our ability to open the centers ahead of our competitors, particularly in cities which do not have shopping and entertainment centers of the type constructed by us. This makes us subject to a number of risks relating to these activities, including: v delays in obtaining zoning and other approvals; v the unavailability of materials and labor; v the abilities of sub-contractors to complete work competently and on schedule; v the surface and subsurface condition of the land underlying the project; v environmental uncertainties; v extraordinary circumstances or “acts of god”; and v ordinary risks of construction that may hinder or delay the successful completion of a particular project. In addition, under our development contracts with local municipalities, we have deadlines for most of our projects (subject to limited exceptions). If construction of a project does not proceed in accordance with our schedule, we may in some instances be required to pay penalties to the vendor (usually local municipalities) based on the extent of the delay and in isolated cases to forfeit rights in the land. The failure to complete a particular project on schedule or on budget may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on attracting third parties to enter into lease agreements. We are dependent on our ability to enter into new leases on favorable terms in order to receive a profitable price for each shopping and entertainment center. We may find it more difficult to engage third parties to enter into leases during periods when market rents are increasing, or when general consumer activity is decreasing. We seek agreements in principle with anchor tenants (such as the operators of cinemas, supermarkets, department stores and electrical appliances stores), either generally or on a property-by property basis, prior to entering into a formal lease. 8 The termination of a lease by any anchor tenant may adversely affect the relevant specific shopping and entertainment center and the price obtainable for the sale of such shopping and entertainment center. Our results of operations may be affected by retail climates and tenant bankruptcies. Bankruptcy filings by our retail tenants are normal in the course of our operations. We are continually re-leasing vacant spaces arising out of tenant terminations as a result of bankruptcy. Pressures that affect consumer confidence, job growth, energy costs and income gains can affect retail sales growth, and a continuing soft economic cycle may impact our ability to find new tenants for property vacancies that result from store closings or bankruptcies. General economic conditions in a region will affect our tenants. If an economic recession occurs, the demand and rents for neighborhood and community shopping and entertainment centers could decline and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected if our tenants are unable to make lease payments or fail to renew their leases as a result of declining consumer spending. We are dependent on the presence of anchor tenants. We rely on the presence of “anchor” tenants in our entertainment and commercial centers. Anchor stores in entertainment and commercial centers play an important part in generating customer traffic and making a center a desirable location for other tenants. The failure of an anchor store to renew its lease, the termination of an anchor store’s lease, or the bankruptcy or economic decline of an anchor tenant can have a material adverse effect on the economic performance of the centers. There can be no assurance that if the anchor stores were to close or fail to renew their leases, we would be able to replace such anchor stores in a timely manner or that we could do so without incurring material additional costs and adverse economic effects. The expiration of an anchor lease at an entertainment and commercial center may make refinancing of such center difficult. Competition is becoming more aggressive in certain Eastern European countries. The shopping and entertainment centers business in Eastern Europe is rapidly becoming more competitive with a number of developers (particularly from Germany and France) becoming active in our target areas. The shopping and entertainment centers concept we promote is gaining increasing popularity due to its potentially high yields. Developers compete not only for patrons, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, qualified contractors, experienced system consultants, expert marketing agents and skilled labor. The public bidding process (the process through which we often acquire new properties) is subject to intense competition and some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, all of which may limit our ability to obtain such projects. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in winning projects that we bid for or which are awarded pursuant to fixed price tenders or that we will otherwise continue to be successful in competing in Eastern Europe. RISKS RELATING TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS The hotels industry may be affected by economic conditions, oversupply, travel patterns, weather and other conditions beyond our control which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The hotels industry may be adversely affected by changes in national or local economic conditions and other local market conditions. Our hotels generally, and in particular, in London, Amsterdam may be subject to the risk of oversupply of hotel rooms. Other general risks that may affect our hotels business are changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions, changes in governmental regulations which influence or determine wages, workers’ union activities, increases in land acquisition prices or construction costs, changes in interest rates, the availability of financing for operating or capital needs, and changes in real estate tax rates and other current operating 9 expenses. Unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, outbreaks of epidemics and economic recessions have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on local and international travel patterns and, as a result, on occupancy rates and prices in our hotels. Downturns or prolonged adverse conditions in the real estate or capital markets or in national or local economies and difficulties in securing financing for the development of hotels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, ability to develop new projects and the attainment of our strategic goals. Competition in the hotels industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The hotels business is highly competitive. This is particularly the case in those areas where there is an oversupply of rooms, such as in London and Amsterdam. Competitive factors within the industry include: • convenience of location and accessibility to business centers; • room rates; • quality of accommodations; • name recognition; • quality and nature of service and guest facilities provided; • reputation; • convenience and ease of reservation systems; and • the supply and availability of alternative lodging. We operate, and intend to develop or acquire, most of our hotels in geographic locations where other hotels are or may be located. We expect to compete for guests and development sites with national chains, large franchisees and independent operators. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources and better brand name recognition than we do, and may have more established relationships with prospective franchisers, representatives in the construction industry and other parties engaged in the lodging industry. The number of competitive lodging facilities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our hotel occupancy and rates and, therefore, revenues of our hotels. We believe that competition within the lodging market may increase in the foreseeable future especially for our hotels located in Eastern Europe. New or existing competitors may significantly reduce their rates or offer greater convenience, services or amenities or significantly expand or improve hotels in the markets in which we currently or may subsequently compete, thereby materially adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Acquiring, developing and renovating hotels involves substantial risks, and we cannot be certain of the success of any future projects. Part of our strategy is to develop new hotels and to acquire and redevelop old or under-performing hotels. Acquiring, developing and renovating hotels involve substantial risks, including: • costs exceeding budget or amounts agreed to with contractors, because of several factors, including delays in completion of construction; • competition for acquisition of suitable development sites from competitors, who may have greater financial resources; • the failure to obtain zoning and construction permits; • unavailability of financing on favorable terms, if at all; 10 • the failure of hotels to earn profits sufficient to service debt incurred in construction or renovation, or at all; • the failure to comply with labor and workers’ union legal requirements; • relationships with and quality and timely performance by contractors; and • compliance with changes in governmental rules, regulations, planning and interpretations. We cannot be certain that present or future development or renovation will be successful. If we are not successful in future projects, it will have a material adverse affect on our business. For successful growth, we must be able to develop or acquire hotels on attractive terms and integrate such hotels into our existing operations. For acquired hotels, we must consolidate management, operations, systems, personnel and procedures, which may not be immediately possible due to collective labor agreements or other legal or operational obstacles. Any substantial delays or unexpected costs in this integration process could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be certain that newly acquired (or constructed or refurbished) hotels will perform as we expect or that we will be able to realize projected cost savings for acquired hotels. Continuous delays with respect to renovations of the physical environment near the Astrid Park Plaza Hotel in Belgium may continue to have an adverse effect on its operations. The Municipality of Antwerp has engaged in extensive construction in the Astridplein, located directly opposite the Astrid Park Plaza Hotel since 2000. Such construction is intended to prepare the square to accommodate the increased traffic which will result once the TGV services to the railway station located adjacent to the square become operational. The completion of this construction has been delayed several times, and has caused and continues to cause obstructions to access to the hotel. In the past, this had an adverse effect on the occupancy rate at our hotel and on the performance of the Aquatopia attraction located within the hotel. The continuation of the construction, the permanent changes to the traffic flow around the hotel and the less convenient access for the hotel’s patrons may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on partners in our joint ventures and collaborative arrangements. We own interests in five operational hotels in partnership with other entities, including in particular, the Red Sea Group of companies (“Red Sea”). (For further information regarding our partnership with Red Sea, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Hotels” below). Red Sea is engaged in the initiation and development of residential and commercial real estate projects in Israel and in the operation of chain of hotels and income producing real estate abroad. We may in the future enter into joint ventures or other collaborative arrangements with Red Sea or with other third parties. Our investments in these joint ventures, including in particular our numerous partnerships with Red Sea, may, under certain circumstances, be subject to (i) the risk that one of our partners may become bankrupt or insolvent, which may cause us to be unable to fulfill our financial obligations, may trigger a default under our bank financing agreements or, in the event of a liquidation, may prevent us from managing or administering our business; (ii) the risk that one of our partners may have economic or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, and that such partner may be in a position to veto actions which may be in our best interests; and (iii) the possibility that disputes may arise regarding the continued operational requirements of our hotels that are jointly owned. We rely on management agreements with Park Plaza which may not provide the intended benefits, and may be terminated. All of the operating hotels in which we have an interest (other than the Centreville Apartment hotel in Bucharest) are either directly or indirectly operated under long-term management agreements with Park Plaza Hotels Europe Ltd. (“Park Plaza”). Park Plaza is the franchisee for certain territories under territorial license and franchise agreements with Golden Wall Investment Ltd., which entitles Park Plaza to use the “Park Plaza” tradename. Any significant decline in the reputation of Park Plaza or in its ability to ensure the performance of our hotels at anticipated levels could 11 adversely affect our results of operations. If for any reason Park Plaza loses its principal franchise, we will automatically lose our ability to use the Park Plaza name and other benefits, and would suffer in the areas of brand name recognition, marketing, and centralized reservations systems provided by Park Plaza, which, in turn, could materially affect our operations. If our agreement with Park Plaza is terminated, we would not be certain that we would be able to obtain alternative management services of the same standard on similar or better terms. Our agreements with Park Plaza and the Rezidor Hotel Group impose obligations on us that may force us to incur significant costs. Our agreements with Park Plaza (for the management of the operational hotels) and the Rezidor Hotel Group (for the future management of the Bucuresti hotel in Bucharest, which is currently under renovation and is intended to be operated under the brand name “Radisson SAS”) contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, hotel operation and maintenance. These standards, restrictions and limitations may conflict with our priorities, and impose capital demands upon us. In addition, Park Plaza and the Rezidor group may alter their standards or hinder our ability to improve or modify our hotels. We may be forced to incur significant costs or make capital improvements in order to comply with requirements of Park Plaza or The Rezidor Hotel Group and, if our relationship with either of these parties is terminated, to change the franchise affiliation of our affected hotels, as a result. The value of our investment in our hotel properties is subject to various risks related to ownership and operation of real property. Our investment in hotel properties is subject to varying degrees of risk related to the ownership and operation of real property. The intrinsic value of our hotels and income from the hotels may be materially adversely affected by: v changes in global and national economic conditions, including global or national recession; v a general or local slowdown in the real property, market which may make it difficult to sell a property; v political events that may have a material adverse effect on the hotel industry; v competition from other lodging facilities, and oversupply of hotel rooms in a specific location; v material changes in operating expenses, including as a result of changes in real property tax systems or rates; v changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; v the effect of present or future environmental laws; v our ongoing need for capital improvements and refurbishments; and v material changes in governmental rules and policies. Our ownership rights in the Bucuresti Hotel have been challenged. Since we acquired a controlling interest in the Bucuresti Hotel complex in Bucharest, Romania (which includes the Bucuresti Hotel and the Centerville apartment hotel), we have encountered a number of attempts to challenge both the validity of the acquisition of the complex and our control over the company owning the rights to the hotel. If any such challenge succeeds, our results of operation and financial position will be materially adversely affected. 12 RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS AND TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS The failure to comply with government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations Both the shopping and entertainment centers business and the hotel industry are subject to numerous national and local government regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and fire safety control. In addition, we are subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and work permit requirements, and in some localities to collective labor agreements. A determination that we are not in compliance with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and significant expenses in bringing our shopping and entertainment centers and hotels into compliance with the regulations. In addition, our ability to dismiss unneeded staff may be hampered by local labor laws and courts which traditionally favor employees in disputes with former employers, particularly in countries with strong socialist histories such as those in Eastern Europe. We may be held liable for design or construction defects of third-party contractors. We rely on the quality and timely performance of construction activities by third-party contractors. Claims may be asserted against us by local government and zoning authorities or by third parties for personal injury and design or construction defects. These claims may not be covered by the professional liability insurance of the contractors or of the architects and consultants. These claims may give rise to significant liabilities. We may be affected by shortages in raw materials and employees. The building industry may from time to time experience fluctuating prices and shortages in the supply of raw materials as well as shortages of labor and other materials. The inability to obtain sufficient amounts of raw materials and to retain efficient employees on terms acceptable to us may delay construction and increase the budget of our projects and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. We may experience fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results as a result of our opening new centers, entering into new businesses and disposing of other centers, hotels or other businesses. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either no longer complement our business, or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and realizing investments and from time to time, attempt to sell these assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We also periodically review our business to identify opportunities for the acquisition or development of new centers and/or hotels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or acquire centers and/or hotels that will become successful. As a result of our disposition and acquisition or development of centers, we may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and that investors should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Factors that affect the value of our real-estate assets and our investments may adversely change and therefore we will need to charge an impairment loss not previously recorded. Certain specific circumstances may affect the fair value of our real estate assets (operating or under construction) and investments. An impairment loss not previously recorded may be required and/or depreciation may be accelerated, upon the occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances: (i) Absence of or modifications to permits or approvals. A construction permit may be revoked as a result of unauthorized delays in commencing construction; a construction 13 permit may be cancelled altogether under certain circumstances, such as where the use of land does not correspond to the permitted usage; a need for a revised construction permit arises by reasons of governmental or other instructions to carry out modifications to our original architectural plans so as to comply, among other things, with environmental and traffic impact plan or obtain archeological clearance; new laws and regulations are enacted which limit the use of our land for structures other than centers or hotels; voluntary modifications to original plans where we encounter opportunities to substantially upgrade our project by acquisitions of adjacent land plots or expansion of original project or otherwise, may trigger the need for a revision to or modification of the issued construction permit if the permit becomes inapplicable; a revised construction permit may be required where changes occur to zoning plans which indirectly affect our proposed commercial center; a new, revised permit, when required, may nevertheless be denied for reasons beyond our control or following our failure to fulfill preconditions or otherwise; (ii) Strategy in respect of long term lease commitments. In commercial centers, where a significant part of the rental areas is subject to long term leases with a small group of retailers which is distinguished (from other lessees) by a direct correlation between the rental fees paid by such retailer and the revenues from their respective rental areas, we may be exposed to a risk of rental fees rates being significantly lower than originally anticipated. A material decline in the long run in the business operations of such retailers may therefore, have an adverse affect on the results of operations of these commercial centers as well as on their recoverable amount. Other commercial centers, the rental areas of which have not been fully rented or which we have designated for an interim period as free of charge public areas, may be required to alter their original designation of use so as to serve, in the best optimal manner, our strategy for the center. Should these areas remain vacant or public, for a period longer than originally anticipated, our long-term cash flows may be negatively impacted and, as a result, the value of the center may decrease; (iii) External Interruptions. Circumstances having significant impact on our real estate may include extensive and continuous infrastructure works carried out by municipalities or other legal authorities. Delays in completion of such works, beyond the anticipated target, may cause harm and damages to the results of operations of the real estate; and (iv) Legal Issues and Other Uncertainties. Lawsuits that are pending, whether or not we are a party thereto, may have a significant impact on our real estate assets and/or on certain of our shareholding rights in the companies owning such assets. Certain laws and regulations, applicable to our business in certain countries where the legislation process undergoes constant changes, may be subject to frequent and substantially different interpretations; agreements which may be interpreted by governmental authorities so as to shorten term of use of real estate, and which may be accompanied with a demand to demolish the construction thereon erected, be that with or without compensation, may significantly affect the value of such real estate asset. Since market conditions and other parameters (such as macroeconomic environment trends, and others), which affect the fair value of our real-estate and investment, vary from time to time, the fair value may not be adequate on a date other than the date the measurement was executed (immediately prior to the balance sheet date). In the event the projected forecasts regarding the future cash flows generated by those assets are not met, we may have to record an additional impairment loss not previously recorded. RISKS RELATING TO THE IMAGE GUIDED TREATMENT BUSINESS InSightec is currently dependent on sales of the ExAblate 2000 for the treatment of uterine fibroids and the sale of research systems for its clinical research. The ExAblate 2000 is in an early stage of commercialization. InSightec received FDA approval in October 2004 to market the ExAblate 2000 in the United States only for the treatment of uterine fibroids. InSightec expects sales of the ExAblate 2000 to come from this application and from sales of research systems for the foreseeable future, depending upon the timing of regulatory approval of 14 additional applications for the ExAblate 2000. As a result, factors adversely affecting InSightec’s ability to sell, or pricing of or demand for, InSightec’s product would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations, which would in turn adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. If the ExAblate 2000 does not achieve broad market acceptance for the treatment of uterine fibroids, InSightec will not be able to generate sufficient sales to support its business. InSightec must achieve broad market acceptance of the ExAblate 2000 for the treatment of uterine fibroids among physicians, patients and third party payors in order to generate a sufficient amount of sales to support its business. Physicians will not recommend the use of the ExAblate 2000 unless InSightec can demonstrate that it produces results comparable or superior to existing treatments for uterine fibroids. If long-term patient studies do not support InSightec’s existing clinical results, or if they indicate that the use of the ExAblate 2000 has negative side effects on patients, physicians may not adopt or continue to use the ExAblate 2000. Even if InSightec demonstrates the effectiveness of the ExAblate 2000, physicians may still not use the system for a number of other reasons. Physicians may continue to recommend traditional uterine fibroid treatment options simply because those methods are already widely accepted and are based on established technologies. Patients may also be reluctant to undergo new, less established treatments for uterine fibroids. If, due to any of these factors, the ExAblate 2000 does not receive broad market acceptance among physicians or patients, InSightec will not generate significant sales. In this event, InSightec’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed, and InSightec’s ability to develop additional treatment applications for the ExAblate 2000 would be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain coverage and sufficient reimbursement from third party healthcare payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate 2000, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. Demand for the ExAblate 2000 is likely to depend substantially on the extent to which sufficient reimbursement for treatment procedures using InSightec’s system will be available from third party payors such as private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations and, to a lesser degree, government payor programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. In the United States, the assignment of a Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code is generally necessary to facilitate claims for reimbursement. In July 2004, two CPT III codes were implemented allowing tracking of the use of the ExAblate 2000 system to treat uterine fibroids. However, the assignment of these codes does not require third party payors to provide reimbursement for procedures performed with the ExAblate 2000. InSightec believes that third party payors will not provide reimbursement on a national basis for treatments using the ExAblate 2000 unless InSightec can generate a sufficient amount of data through long-term patient studies to demonstrate that such treatments produce favorable results in a cost-effective manner relative to other treatments. Furthermore, InSightec could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of private healthcare or governmental payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement for treatment procedures using the ExAblate 2000. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate 2000, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. InSightec’s success in non-U.S. markets also depends on treatment procedures using the ExAblate 2000 being eligible for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems, private third-party payors and labor unions. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region. Many non-U.S. markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Other non-U.S. markets have private insurance systems; labor union-sponsored programs and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. To date, only one third party payor, a health maintenance organization in Israel, has approved reimbursement coverage for treatments using the ExAblate 2000. We cannot assure you that such coverage will be approved by additional payors in other markets in a timely manner, if at 15 all, thereby materially adversely affecting InSightec’s results our operation. In the event that InSightec is unable to timely obtain acceptable levels of reimbursement coverage in its targeted markets outside of the United States, InSightec’s ability to generate sales may be adversely affected. InSightec’s future growth substantially depends on its ability to develop and obtain regulatory clearance for additional treatment applications for the ExAblate 2000. InSightec has received regulatory approvals to market the ExAblate 2000 in the United States, Israel, Canada, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Singapore and the European Union Economic Area, or EEA, which is comprised of the member nations of the European Union and certain additional European nations, solely for the treatment of uterine fibroids. In addition, InSightec has received in May 2007 the CE-marking (approval to market in the EEA) for pain palliation of bone metastases. However, clinical experience for this application is still in early stages and therefore commercial acceptance is expected to take some time. InSightec’s objective is to expand the use of the ExAblate 2000 by developing and introducing new treatment applications. InSightec is currently in various stages of product development and clinical studies for a number of new treatment applications for the ExAblate 2000. It will be required to obtain FDA approval in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before marketing the ExAblate 2000 for these additional treatment applications. Furthermore, InSightec cannot guarantee that InSightec’s product development activities for these other applications will be successful and in such event, InSightec’s future growth will be harmed. In particular, InSightec’s future curative oncology treatment applications are subject to significant risks since these applications must be able to demonstrate complete ablation of malignant tumors. If InSightec is unable to demonstrate this degree of efficacy, its future curative oncology treatment applications may not prove to be successful. In addition, assuming product development is successful, the regulatory processes can be lengthy, lasting many years in some cases, and expensive. We cannot assure you that FDA approval or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of the ExAblate 2000 treatment for additional applications, InSightec is required to conduct clinical studies to demonstrate the therapeutic benefits and cost-effectiveness of these new treatment applications and products. Clinical trials are expensive and may take several years to complete. If future clinical trials indicate that the ExAblate 2000 is not as beneficial or cost-effective as existing treatment methods, or that such products cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen adverse events, InSightec may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the ExAblate 2000 for these additional treatment applications or obtain reimbursement coverage, and InSightec’s long-term growth would be seriously harmed. The product development and regulatory approval process for each of InSightec’s future applications is subject to a number of application-specific risks and uncertainties. For example, the life expectancy from existing surgical treatment options for breast cancer is long and the survival rate is relatively high. As a result, InSightec will have to conduct extensive clinical trials, which may include several thousand participants and extend over several years of follow-up. This may delay the commercial introduction of InSightec’s applications by several years. In addition, InSightec is still in the process of developing and improving clinical prototypes for its liver, bone metastasis tumors, prostate, and brain treatment applications. If it is unable to surmount these challenges, as well as the challenges relating to its other future applications, its business and results of operations may be adversely affected. InSightec is dependent on General Electric. The ExAblate 2000 is compatible only with certain of GE Healthcare, a division of the General Electric Company (“GE”) Healthcare’s Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems, which may limit InSightec’s potential market. A significant portion of the MRI systems in use in the United States and elsewhere are not GE MRI systems. InSightec has no current plans to develop a system that would be compatible with MRI systems manufactured by companies other than GE and is, therefore, limited in its target market to potential customers who already own or otherwise have access to a compatible GE MRI system, or are willing to purchase such a system in order to use the ExAblate 2000. In addition, in the event that GE is unable to effectively market its MRI systems, InSightec’s 16 ability to generate additional sales of the ExAblate 2000 may be adversely affected. InSightec depends on its collaboration with GE to ensure the compatibility of the ExAblate 2000 with new models of GE MRI systems and upgrades to existing GE MRI systems. GE regularly develops new models of its MRI systems, as well as new capabilities for its existing MRI systems, which could affect their compatibility with the ExAblate 2000. If InSightec is unable to receive information regarding new models of the GE MRI systems or upgrades to existing GE MRI systems, and coordinate corresponding upgrades to the ExAblate 2000 to ensure continued compatibility with new and existing GE MRI systems, its ability to generate sales of its system will be adversely affected. In addition, If InSightec is unable to coordinate new applications or upgrades with GE’s research and development team, it may be unable to develop such applications or upgrades in a timely manner and its future revenue growth may be seriously harmed. In addition, InSightec entered into a five year exclusive worldwide (excluding Japan and Russia) sales and marketing agreement with GE with respect to the ExAblate 2000. Although the agreement does not prohibit InSightec from marketing and selling the ExAblate 2000 directly, InSightec expects that a substantial portion of its sales of the ExAblate 2000 will be developed through this agreement with GE. Since InSightec currently has no direct control over GE’s sales and marketing personnel, InSightec must rely on incentives provided by GE to its personnel to encourage effective marketing of the ExAblate 2000, as well as contractual provisions contained in the agreement. In addition, GE has a right of first negotiation with respect to the distribution, of our focused ultrasound products, and the design and supply of imaging devices to be used in connection with our current and future Magnetic Resonance Guided Focused Ultrasound (“MRgFUS”) products. These rights continue until five years after the sale by GE of all of Insightec’s ordinary shares that it holds or, with respect to any distribution agreement, until the earlier of three years after such sale of our ordinary shares or the date on which GE fails to meet minimum thresholds provided in such distribution agreement. We cannot assure you that GE will be successful in efforts to generate sales of the ExAblate 2000 or any other products developed by us as to which it obtains distribution rights. In such event InSightec’s results of operation may be materially adversely affected. The sales and marketing agreement does not prohibit GE from marketing or manufacturing other focused ultrasound-based products that may compete with the ExAblate 2000. In addition, GE retained the right to use certain focused ultrasound-related patents which it assigned to InSightec at the time of its formation and InSightec has granted to GE a non-exclusive license to certain of our patents derived from technology and patent rights licensed to InSightec by GE. GE may use such patents to develop its own focused ultrasound based products without InSightec’s consent. In the event that GE chooses to distribute or manufacture medical devices that may compete with the ExAblate 2000 or other products based on the MRgFUS technology, InSightec’s sales may be adversely affected. If InSightec is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement could require InSightec to redesign its products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact InSightec’s future business and financial performance. InSightec’s success and ability to compete depends in large part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology. InSightec relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and on confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, in order to protect its intellectual property rights. A few of InSightec’s patents were transferred to InSightec from GE at the time of its formation, and GE retains a non-exclusive license to make, use and sell products covered under these patents in the imaging field only without InSightec’s permission. Prior to the transfer, GE had entered into cross-license agreements with respect to these patents with a number of companies, including some that may be potential competitors of InSightec. As a result of these cross license agreements, InSightec may not be able to enforce these patents against one or more of these companies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that InSightec’s existing or future patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that InSightec’s existing patents, or any patents, which may be issued as a result of existing or future applications, will provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to InSightec. Any 17 issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. InSightec cannot be certain that its patents will be upheld as valid, proven enforceable, or prevent the development of competitive products. Consequently, competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with InSightec’s product, which could decrease its sales and diminish its ability to compete. Claims by competitors and other third parties that InSightec products allegedly infringe the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on InSightec’s business. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of this type of litigation is difficult to predict. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of InSightec’s technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject InSightec to significant liabilities or require InSightec to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OTHER ACTIVITIES Our Mango business is dependent on a single franchise and supplier which could cause delays or disruptions in the delivery of our Mango products, which could harm our business and results of operations. Mango, an apparel company which we acquired in May 2005, depends on its franchise with and supply of products from Punto Fa, S.L., a contemporary women’s apparel company, and its international brand name MANGO-MNG™ (which supplier we refer to collectively herein as Mango International). If Mango International ends its relationship with Mango or enters into liquidation, Mango’s business in Israel will be terminated. In addition, Mango relies on the supply of its products from Mango International and may face a shortage of inventory if there is a worldwide excess demand for Mango International’s products. If either of these events occurs, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. A rise in wage levels in Israel could adversely affect Mango’s financial results. Mango relies mainly on minimum wage employees. The Israeli government increased the applicable minimum wage effective as of July 2006. If wage levels generally, and particularly the minimum wage in Israel, increase, Mango’s results of operations could be harmed. The apparel industry is subject to changes in fashion preferences. If the manufacturer of Mango products misjudges fashion trends, or if we fail to choose from the Mango International inventory design products that appeal to our customers, our sales could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Neither Mango International nor Mango may be successful in anticipating and responding to fashion trends in the future. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in part on Mango International’s ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings far in advance. If Mango International is unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudges the market for its products or any new product lines, or if we fail to choose from the Mango International inventory design products that appeal to our customers’ changing fashion preferences, Mango’s sales will be lower and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. As a result, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Mango brand image may also suffer if customers believe merchandise misjudgments indicate that Mango no longer offers the latest fashions. A change in customs rates and custom and harbor strikes could adversely affect Mango’s financial results. Mango is subject to Israeli customs since all of its products are imported. An increase in customs rates on Mango’s products could adversely affect Mango’s ability to compete against local manufacturers or with products from countries which enjoy more favorable customs rates in Israel. 18 On the other hand, a reduction in customs rates may encourage entrance penetration of new competitors to the market. In addition, since most of Mango’s products are imported, custom and harbor strikes and delays could adversely affect Mango’s ability to meet customer demands and adversely affect Mango’s financial results. Mango may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive women’s apparel industry, and Mango’s competitors may have greater financial, geographic and other resources. The sale of fashionable women’s apparel is highly competitive. Mango competes directly with a number of Israeli and international brands (such as Zara, Castro, Honigman, Renuar and Dan Casidi, some of which have longer operating histories and enjoy greater financial and marketing resources than Mango. For example, as a result of their greater financial and marketing resources, Mango’s competitors may have the ability to obtain better geographic locations for their stores in commercial centers, with better traffic flow and access to customers, which would have a positive impact on their sales. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures or loss of market share to Mango and adversely affect Mango’s revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that Mango will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Mango has no control over fluctuations in the cost of the raw materials it uses and a rise in costs could harm Mango’s profitability. Mango buys its entire inventory from Mango International, which is responsible for the design and manufacturing of all of Mango’s products. The prices of the inventory that Mango purchases from Mango International are dependent on the manufacturing costs of Mango International. Mango International’s manufacturing costs are substantially dependent on the prices of raw materials and level of wages in the countries where its products are manufactured. Therefore, an increase in the manufacturing costs of Mango International will cause an increase in Mango’s cost of goods sold and Mango may not be able to pass on the increased costs to its customers. Such increased costs would likely adversely affect Mango’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. A devaluation of the NIS against the Euro could harm Mango’s profitability. Mango buys its entire inventory from Mango International. The price of this inventory is denominated in Euros. Therefore, a devaluation of the NIS against the Euro will cause an increase in Mango’s cost of goods sold expressed in NIS, and Mango may not be able to pass the increased costs to its customers. This would likely adversely affect Mango’s profitability, operational results and its financial conditions. Our venture capital investments are made in development stage companies and involve high risks. Investments in biotechnology development stage companies involve high risks. These companies are subject to various risks generally encountered by new enterprises, including costly, delayed or protracted research and development programs, the need for acceptance of their products in the market place, and the need for additional financing which might not be available. We cannot be certain that the assessments we made at the time of investment in our venture capital investments, as to the quality of the concept or the prototype, will prove correct, or that there will be an adequate return on investment, if at all. If our assessment of the venture capital investments are incorrect, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our venture capital investments are speculative in nature and we may never realize any revenues or profits from these investments. We cannot be certain that our venture capital investments will result in revenues or profits. Economic, governmental, regulatory and industry factors outside our control affect our venture capital investments. If our venture capital investments will not successfully implement its business plan we will not be able to realize any profits from it. Our ability to realize profits from these 19 investments will be dependent upon the management of these companies, the success of its research and development activities, the timing of the marketing of its products and numerous other factors beyond our control. RISKS RELATING TO ISRAEL Security and economic conditions in Israel may affect our operations. EMI is incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices are located in Israel. In addition our operations in our other lines of business, such as Mango and other venture capital investments operating in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, various armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Israel signed a peace treaty with Egypt in 1979 and a peace treaty with Jordan in 1994. As of the date of this annual report, Israel has not entered into any peace agreement with Syria or Lebanon. Since 1993, several agreements have been signed between Israel and the Palestinians, but a final agreement has not been achieved. Since October 2000, there has been a marked increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, characterized by terrorist attacks on civilian targets, suicide bombings and military incursions into areas under the control of the Palestinian Authority. These developments have adversely affected the peace process, placed the Israeli economy under significant stress, and have negatively influenced Israel’s relationship with several Arab countries. In January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to the stability in the Middle East as a whole. In addition, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Many of our directors, officers and employees are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Our directors, officers and employees who are male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The deteriorating security situation in the Middle East has caused, and will continue to cause, a sharp increase in the army reserve obligations of our directors, officers and employees who are subject to such reserve duty obligations. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements in the past, including during recent hostilities with the Palestinians and the war in Iraq we cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect of any increase or reduction of these requirements on us. An income tax reform in Israel may adversely affect us. Effective as of January 2003, the Israeli Parliament has enacted a wide-ranging reform of the Israeli income tax system. These tax reforms have resulted in significant changes to the Israeli tax system. The main effect of this new tax reform on us is that we might be subject to additional tax arising from profits from our foreign companies which would be defined as “Controlled Foreign Companies” (CFC) in accordance with the provisions of the law. This may have adverse tax consequences for us. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel, which may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us. 20 EMI is incorporated in Israel. None of our directors and officers are residents of the United States and some of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Service of process upon our non-U.S. resident directors and officers and enforcement of judgments obtained in the United States against us, and our directors and executive officers may be difficult to obtain within the United States. We have been informed by our Israeli legal counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable if it finds that all of the following terms are met: (i) the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; (ii) the judgment can no longer be appealed; (iii) the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and (iv) the judgment is executory in the state in which it was rendered or issued. Even if the above conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court will also not declare a foreign judgment enforceable in the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the judgment was obtained by fraud; (ii) there was no due process; (iii) the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; (iv) the judgment is at variance with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and which is still valid; or (v) at the time the action was brought in the foreign court a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. The Israeli Companies Law of 1999 (the “Companies Law”) provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a special tender offer if as a result of such acquisition the purchaser becomes a holder of 25% or more of the voting rights in the company. This rule does not apply if there already is another holder of 25% or more of the voting rights in the company. Similarly, the Companies Law provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a special tender offer, if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser becomes a holder of more than 45% of the voting rights in the company. This rule does not apply if another party already holds more than 45% of the voting rights in the company. Furthermore, under the Companies Law, a person is not permitted to acquire shares of a public company or a class of shares of a public company, if following such acquisition such person holds 90% or more of the company’s shares or class of shares, unless such person conducts a tender offer for all of the company’s shares or class of shares (a “Full Tender Offer”). In the event that holders of less than 5% of the company’s issued share capital or of the issued class of shares did not respond to the tender offer, then such offer will be accepted and all of the company’s shares or class of shares with respect to which the offer was made will be transferred to the offeror, including all of the company’s shares or class of shares held by such non-responsive shareholders that will be transferred to the offeror by way of a compulsory sale of shares. In the event that holders of 5% or more of the issued shares did not respond to the tender offer, the offeror may not purchase more than 90% of the shares or class of shares of such company. At the request of an offeree of a Full Tender Offer which was accepted, the court may determine that the consideration for the shares purchased under the tender offer, was lower than their fair value and compel the offeror to pay to the offerees the fair value of the shares. Such application to the court may be filed as a class action. The Companies Law provides that for as long as a shareholder in a publicly held company holds more than 90% of the company’s shares or of a class of shares, such shareholder shall be precluded from purchasing any additional shares. The violation of certain conditions under the Israeli Tax Ordinance and/or the pre-ruling 21 issued by the Israeli tax authorities in connection with the merger by way of exchange of shares between EMI and its subsidiary, Elscint may result in the merger not being treated as tax exempt by the Israeli tax authorities and the imposition of capital gains tax on the exchange of shares. In November 2005, a merger between Elscint Limited (“Elscint”), our subsidiary, and EMI was consummated pursuant to which EMI purchased the entire outstanding share capital of Elscint not already owned by EMI and by or for the benefit of Elscint, in consideration for 0.53 ordinary shares of EMI for each 1 ordinary share of Elscint. If any requirement or condition of the merger under the Israeli Tax Ordinance [New Version] of 1961, the regulations promulgated thereunder or the pre-ruling issued by the Israeli tax authorities in connection with the merger is breached and/or is not met, the merger will not be treated as tax exempt for Israeli tax purposes. As part of the final pre-ruling issued by the Israeli tax authorities, EMI, Elscint and their controlling shareholders were subject to certain restrictions and conditions. In that event, the Israeli tax authorities may impose, in accordance with the Ordinance, Israeli capital gains tax on EMI and on the former Elscint shareholders in respect of the exchange of shares under the merger. RISKS RELATING TO OPERATIONS IN EASTERN EUROPE AND ASIA We are subject to various risks related to our operations in Eastern Europe, including economic and political instability, political and criminal corruption. Many of the Eastern European countries in which we operate are countries which until the last decade, were allied with the former Soviet Union under a communist economic system, and they are still subject to various risks. Certain Eastern European countries, in particular those countries that are not expected to join the European Union in the near future, are still economically and politically unstable and suffer from political and criminal corruption, lack of commercial experience, and unpredictability of the civil justice system. Certain Eastern European countries also continue to suffer from high unemployment, low wages and low literacy rates. These risks could be harmful to us and are very difficult to quantify or predict. Although many governments of the Eastern European countries have liberalized policies on international trade, foreign ownership and development, investment, and currency repatriation to increase both international trade and investment, such policies might change unexpectedly. We will be affected by the rules and regulations regarding foreign ownership of real and personal property. Such rules may change quickly and dramatically and thus may have an adverse impact on ownership and may result in a loss without recourse of our property or assets. Domestic and international laws and regulations, whether existing today or in the future, could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and could impair our profitability. Certain Eastern European countries may regulate or require governmental approval for the repatriation of investment income, capital or the proceeds of sales of securities by foreign investors. In addition, if there is deterioration in a country’s balance of payments or for other reasons, a country may impose temporary restrictions on foreign capital remittances abroad. Any such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to repatriate investment loans or to remit dividends. Many emerging countries have experienced substantial, and in some periods extremely high, rates of inflation for many years. Inflation and rapid fluctuations in inflation rates have had and may continue to have negative effects on the economies and securities markets of certain emerging countries. In addition, in an attempt to control inflation, price controls at our hotels have been imposed at times in certain countries, which may affect our ability to increase our room rates. Environmental issues are becoming of increasing significance in Eastern Europe which may result in delays in construction and increased costs. There is increasing awareness of environmental issues in Eastern Europe. This may be of critical importance in areas previously occupied by the Soviet Army, where soil pollution may be prevalent. We cannot be certain that all sites acquired will be free of environmental pollution. If a property that we acquire turns out to be polluted, such a finding will adversely affect our ability to construct, develop and operate a shopping and entertainment center on such property, and may cause us to suffer expenses incurred in cleaning up the polluted site which may be significant. 22 We are subject to various risks related to our operations in Romania including the unpredictability of the civil justice system. Our Bucuresti Hotel is generally affected by risks of doing business in Romania. Any foreign company or litigant may encounter difficulty in prevailing in any dispute with, or enforcing any judgment against, the Romanian government or any officers or directors under the Romanian legal system. If our ownership rights in the company that owns the Bucuresti Hotel Complex are successfully challenged this may affect our ability to obtain compensation for our original investment. We have faced several challenges to our acquisition under the privatization contract. In addition, the privatization process itself has been challenged as illegal. All of these claims have been dismissed Acquiring Sites in India And other Countries in Asia While we believe that the skills and experiences that we have acquired through sourcing sites, and developing and selling shopping and entertainment centres in emerging markets in CEE can be applied successfully to projects in India and other countries in Asia, this cannot be guaranteed. The differences between emerging markets in CEE and emerging markets in India and other countries in Asia, such as differing legal structures, requirements and business cultures and restrictions on foreign ownership and control of real estate projects, may mean that our success in developing and selling shopping and entertainment centres in CEE may not be replicated in India and Asia. Hostilities in India and other Countries in Asia India has from time to time experienced instances of hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan and China. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that companies operating in India are usually involved in higher degrees of risk. Events of this nature in the future, as well as social and civil unrest within other countries in Asia, could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest due to religious strife. Changes in the Policies of the Government of India or Political Instability Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector and significantly reducing the roles of the state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators. The current Government of India, formed in May 2004, has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization pursued by previous governments. However, this trend of liberalization may not continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting the civil infrastructure industry, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, as well as our business. The current Indian government is a coalition of several parties. The withdrawal of one or more of these parties from the coalition could result in political instability. Any such instability could delay the progress of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on us. GENERAL If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purpose, holders of ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A determination that we are a PFIC could cause our U.S. shareholders to suffer adverse 23 tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gains rates and could have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Tax consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company” below. We are subject to various legal proceedings that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain legal proceedings have been initiated against us, including litigation in connection with the change of control of EMI and our subsidiary Elscint Ltd. in May 1999 and the acquisition of the hotel businesses by Elscint in September 1999, including motions to certify such claims as class actions. For details refer to our annual financial statements included in Item 18. A claim has also been made by an individual that a percentage of EMI and certain of our subsidiaries belongs to him. We cannot estimate the results of these proceedings. A determination against us in some or all of these proceedings may materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant capital needs and additional financing may not be available. The sectors in which we compete are capital intensive. We require substantial up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs as well as certain investments in research and development. In addition, following construction capital expenditures are necessary to maintain the centers in good condition. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire, renovate and redevelop additional hotels and to develop new hotels. In addition, in order for our hotels to remain competitive, they must be maintained and refurbished on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, we require substantial amounts of cash and construction financing from banks for our operations and require financing for the development, renovation and maintenance of our hotels. We cannot be certain that such external financing would be available on favorable terms or on a timely basis or at all. In addition, construction loan agreements generally permit the draw down of the loan funds against the achievement of pre-determined construction and space leasing milestones. If we fail to achieve these milestones, the availability of the loan funds may be delayed, thereby causing a further delay in the construction schedule. If we are not successful in obtaining financing to fund our planned projects and other expenditures, our ability to undertake additional development projects may be limited and our future profits and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to obtain financing may affect our ability to construct or acquire additional centers and hotels, and we may experience delays in planned renovation or maintenance of our hotels that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our high leverage could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes. We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. Our lenders require us to maintain and comply with certain financial and operational covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt instruments or our inability to comply with the required covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of any default under the loan agreements, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees. Furthermore, in the event of any default under the loan agreements, such loans could be reclassified as short-term debt. Such classification in our financial statements may improperly reflect our working capital ratio as well as other financial indicators since the assets which were financed by these loans are classified as non-current assets. As a result of our substantial indebtedness: • we could be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; 24 • we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other projects; • we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry; and • we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our business segments with less debt. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We have the ability under our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEBENTURES (“NOTES”) The Notes that we are listing for trade on the TASE are unsecured. As a result, there may be circumstances in which our secured indebtedness will be paid from assets that secure that indebtedness before payment is made on the Notes. Our obligations under our existing credit facilities are secured by certain first ranking fixed and floating charges over our rights, assets and property. The Notes that we are listing for trade on the TASE will be unsecured. We may also at any time create additional security interests with respect to our current or future indebtedness, subject to the terms of our credit facilities. If we default on our existing or future credit facilities, these Notes, or certain of our other indebtedness or enter bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, then all of our assets that secure our debts will be used to satisfy the obligations under such secured indebtedness before we could make any payments on the Notes. Therefore, there may only be limited assets available to make payments on the Notes if one of these events were to occur. We may not be able to make our debt payments in the future. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our strategy, as well as on financial, competitive, legal, regulatory and technical factors, including some factors that are beyond our control. In addition, certain of our existing credit facility mature and our new credit facility will mature prior to the scheduled maturity date of the Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt, we may have to refinance all or part of our indebtedness. In addition, cash flows from our operations may be insufficient to repay in full at maturity the Notes, in which case the Notes may need to be refinanced. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, will depend on, among other things: • our financial condition at the time, • restrictions in agreements governing our debt and • other factors, including market conditions. We cannot ensure that any such refinancing would be possible on terms that we could accept or that we could obtain additional financing. If refinancing will not be possible or if additional financing will not be available, we may have to sell our assets under circumstances that might not yield the highest prices, or default on our debt obligations, including the Notes, which would permit our noteholders and holders of other outstanding indebtedness to accelerate their maturity dates. From time to time we consider equity financings, either directly or through our subsidiaries. If we pursue equity financings directly or through our subsidiaries, our interest in those subsidiaries 25 would decrease. In addition, the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may be impaired, which in turn, could limit our ability to make the required payment on the Notes. See also “Our high leverage could adversely affect our ability to operate our business” above. Our results of operations fluctuate due to the seasonality of our various businesses. Our annual revenues and earnings are substantially dependent upon general business activity, vacation and holiday seasons and the influence of weather conditions. As a result, changes in any of the above have a disproportionate effect on the annual results of operations of our shopping and entertainment centers, hotels and Mango businesses. One of our shareholders beneficially owns a substantial amount of our ordinary shares and, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. As of May 31, 2007, Mordechay Zisser, the Executive Chairman of our board of directors, held, directly or indirectly, approximately 49.42% of our issued share capital. As a result of such holdings he has the ability, in effect, to elect the members of our board of directors and to effectively control our business. A loss of the services of members of the senior management of EMI, including in particular that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations We depend on the continued services of the members of our senior management team, including in particular that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, our Executive Chairman of the board of directors. Any loss of the services of Mr. Mordechay Zisser or any other member of our senior management team could result in the loss of expertise necessary for us to succeed, which could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our objectives. Our annual and quarterly results may vary which may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We have experienced at times in the past, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results which may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. These fluctuations may be caused by various factors, particularly due to significant sales of our properties and the frequency of such transactions. During 2005, we changed our business strategy to the entrepreneurship and development of shopping and entertainment centers supported by short term management and operation activities with the principal objective of founding and stabilizing the centers with a view to selling them during their construction or as closely as possible to their completion. Our decision to sell properties is based on various factors, including market conditions, and we cannot predict when such sales will actually occur. Accordingly, investors should not rely on the results of any past periods as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our share price may drop. 26 