D. RISK FACTORS The following is a list of the material risk factors that may affect our business and our results of operations. We cannot predict nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or a combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Furthermore, we cannot assess the occurrence, probability or likelihood of any such risk factor, or a combination of factors, to materialize, nor can we provide assurance that we will not be subject to additional risk factors resulting from local and/or global changes and developments not under our control that might impact our businesses or the markets in which we operate. GENERAL RISKS Conditions and changes in the local and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate can harm our business. In recent years, global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. These economic factors include diminished liquidity and tighter credit conditions, leading to decreased credit availability, as well as declines in economic growth and employment levels. The scope and effects of the recent economic instability cannot yet be determined. Partly as a result, entire industries have faced and may be facing extreme contraction and even the prospect of collapse. In addition, recent concerns regarding the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, such as Greece, which is facing possible default of its sovereign debt obligations, as well as Spain, Italy and the United States, the sovereign debt obligations of which were recently downgraded, has disrupted financial markets throughout the world, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States, and other parts of the world. These risks may be elevated with respect to our interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to sovereign risk from business interactions directly with fiscally-challenged government payers. 7 The credit crisis could have a number of follow-on effects on our business, including a possible: (i) slow-down in our business, resulting from lower consumer expenditure, inability of consumers to pay for products and services, insolvency of consumers or insolvency of key partners, (ii) negative impact on our liquidity, financial condition and share price, which may impact our ability to raise capital in the market, obtain financing and other sources of funding in the future on terms favorable to us, and engage with co-investors for additional investments in the U.S. retail real estate market, (iii) decrease in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses and possible noncompliance with certain financial covenants in credit and loan agreements to which we are a party (such as those relating to loan-to-value parameters and the value of collateral (including real estate or securities), and (iv) imposition of regulatory limitations on financial institutions with respect to their ability to provide financing to companies such as us and/or projects such as those in which we are engaged, while creating a credit crunch. If such financial and economic uncertainty continues, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations and may increase the difficulty for us to accurately forecast and plan future business. Macro or micro-economic changes as described above, may affect our compliance with covenants we took upon ourself in financing agreements, including but not limited to, as a result of the decrease in the value of our collateral (LTV) (including the decrease in the value of real estate or securities which are pledged to banks). For additional information on pledged assets as stated above, please see Item 5.B "Liquidity and Capital Resources". We have significant capital needs and additional financing may not be available. The sectors in which we compete are capital intensive. We require substantial up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs, investment in the U.S. real property market, investments in research and development, investment in our retail brands as well as for the ongoing maintenance of our hotels or operation of our commercial centers. In addition, following construction, additional financing is necessary to maintain the centers in good condition until they are sold. Accordingly, we require substantial amounts of cash and financing for our operations. We cannot be certain that such external financing would be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, any changes in the global economy, real estate or business environments in which we operate, any negative trend in the capital markets, and/or decrease in our credit rating or the credit rating of our securities, might have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. We and our 62.52% subsidiary, Plaza Centers N.V. (LSE: PLAZ) (WSE: PLAZ/PLAZACNTR) (“PC”) (56.91% on a fully diluted basis), issue debentures to the public in Israel from time to time which are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in substantial amounts in order to finance our operations. We and PC depend on our ability to refinance these existing Israeli traded debentures. We have recently experienced a significant decline in trading prices (and corresponding rise in yield returns) of the Israeli traded debentures of PC and us, which has severely impaired, and may continue to impair, our ability to raise additional financing or to refinance our existing debentures through issuances of new Israeli traded debentures at attractive terms or at all. Also, during 2008, and to some extent during 2009, 2010 and 2011, the world markets experienced a financial crisis, which resulted in lower liquidity in the capital markets and lower liquidity in bank financing for real property projects. The financial crisis also affected our ability to obtain financing in Central and Eastern Europe ("CEE") and India for our commercial shopping centers and residential projects in those countries. Lower liquidity may result in difficulties to raise additional debt or less favorable interest rates for such debt. In addition, construction loan agreements generally permit the drawdown of the loan funds against the achievement of pre-determined construction and space leasing or selling milestones. If we fail to achieve these milestones (including as a result of the global financial crisis and the significant decrease in the number and volume of transactions in general), the availability of the loan funds may be delayed, thereby causing a further delay in the construction schedule. If we are not successful in obtaining financing to fund our planned projects and other expenditures, our ability to develop existing projects and to undertake additional development projects may be limited and our future profits and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to obtain financing may affect our ability to construct or acquire additional land plots, shopping centers and hotels, and we may experience delays in planned renovation or maintenance of our hotels and commercial centers, or in completion of the construction of our trading property that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our inability to obtain financing may also affect our ability to refinance our existing debt, which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flow. 8 In addition, our quarterly and annual operating results have, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. These fluctuations may be caused by various factors, particularly due to significant sales of our properties and the frequency of such transactions as well as changes in valuations of shopping centers in the United States and the effect on certain financial investments that are measured at fair value through profit and loss ("FVTPL") that are subject to market price. As a result of our disposition and acquisition or development of centers, we may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results. If we were in need of cash and financing for our operations at a time when our results were low, this may also have an impact on our ability to fund or successfully obtain financing to fund our planned projects and other expenditures. Our high leverage could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations, including bank debt and debentures issued in public offerings to investors in Israel. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes. We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. Some of our lenders require us to maintain and comply with certain financial and operational covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt instruments or our inability to comply with the required covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of any default under the loan agreements, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, which might trigger cross-defaults under other loan agreements as well. Furthermore, in the event of any default under the loan agreements, such loans should be reclassified as short-term debt. Such classification in our financial statements may improperly reflect our working capital ratio as well as other financial indicators since the assets which were financed by these loans are classified as non-current assets. As a result of our substantial indebtedness: · we could be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other projects; · we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry; · we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our business segments with less debt; · we may face difficulties in establishing strategic or other long-term business joint ventures; and · we may face difficulties in refinancing our debentures traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange if our or PC's Israeli traded debentures continue to experience a decline in trading prices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Subject to the right market conditions, we have the ability under our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. 9 Our debentures and PC's debentures were subject to several rating downgrades during 2011. Our debentures were rated, as of November 2011, by Midroog Ltd. an affiliate of Moody's Investors Services at a “baa1/Negative” credit rating and as of November 2011 by Maalot, the Israel Securities Rating Company Ltd. an affiliate of Standard and Poors at an "ilBBB+/Negative" credit rating. PC's debentures traded on the TASE were rated, as of August 2011, by Midroog Ltd. an affiliate of Moody's Investors Services at an “A3/Negative” credit rating and as of November 2011 by Maalot, the Israel Securities Rating Company Ltd. an affiliate of Standard and Poors at an "ilBBB+/Negative" credit rating. As a result of the rating downgrades of our debentures and PC's debentures and any further rating downgrade or suspension or withdrawal of the rating assigned by a rating agency to our debentures or PC's debentures, we may experience increased difficulty in raising debt financing in the future or in refinancing our indebtedness and difficulties in transacting other business, which might limit our operational flexibility. Our financial instruments (mainly our loans and debentures) and our derivative financial instruments are subject to fluctuation in interest rates, currency exchange rates, changes in the consumer price index and/or changes in fair value, which may have a negative impact on our earnings, balance sheet and cash flows. Floating interest rates on debt facilities expose us to increases in market interest rates and subsequent increases in interest costs. To the extent that we at any time are unhedged or insufficiently hedged against interest rate fluctuations, our earnings and balance sheet position may be negatively impacted. In addition, certain debt agreements may include default interest under certain circumstances, which may be higher than the original interest rate set out in the debt agreement. If a lender successfully asserts its right to invoke a default interest clause, this will increase our effective interest costs in respect of facilities with that lender. We are impacted by exchange rates and fluctuations thereof. We are likely to face risks from fluctuations in the value of the functional currencies of our subsidiaries against the linkage currency of the applicable financial instruments. To the extent that we at any time are unhedged or insufficiently hedged against currency exchange rates, our earnings and balance sheet position may be negatively impacted. The principal and interest of most of our debt instruments is determined by reference to the Israeli consumer price index (the "CPI"), which may entail significant risks not associated with similar investments in a conventional fixed or floating rate debt security. The historical value of the CPI is not indicative of future CPI performance and its value is affected by, and sometimes depends on, a number of interrelated factors, including direct government intervention and economic, financial, regulatory, and political events, over which we have no control. An increase in the CPI will result in additional financing expenses to our profits and losses and will have a negative impact on our cash flows. Certain of our financial instruments and derivative financial instruments are measured by fair value. Any change to the fair value of such instrument will affect our profits and losses and may have a material effect on our results. The fair value of our real estate assets (including commercial shopping centers, hotels, residential projects, U.S. yielding real estate investments and others) may be harmed by certain factors, which may entail impairment losses not previously recorded which, in turn, will affect our financial results. Certain circumstances may affect the fair value of our real estate assets (operating, under construction or held by our U.S. real property investment fund), including, among other things, (i) the absence of or modifications to permits or approvals required for the construction and/or operation of any real estate asset; (ii) in shopping and entertainment centers where a significant part of the rental areas is subject to long-term leases with a small group of retailers which is distinguished from other lessees, we may be exposed to a risk of rental fees rates being significantly lower than originally anticipated and a material long term decline in the business operations of such retailers may therefore have an adverse effect on the real estate assets recoverable amount and their final sale prices; (iii) delays in completion of works, beyond the anticipated target, may adversely affect the fair value of the assets and our results of operations and cash flow; (iv) lawsuits that are pending, whether or not we are a party thereto, may have a significant impact on our real estate assets and/or on certain of our shareholding rights in the companies owning such assets and (v) full or partial eminent domain proceedings (with or without compensation) regarding such real estate assets. In addition, certain laws and regulations, applicable to our business in certain countries where the legislation process undergoes constant changes, may be subject to frequent and substantially different interpretations; agreements which may be interpreted by governmental authorities so as to shorten the term of use of real estate, and which may be accompanied with a demolition order with or without compensation, may significantly affect the value of such real estate asset. The fair value of our real estate assets may be significantly decreased, thereby resulting in potential impairment losses not previously recorded in our financial results. 10 Since market conditions and other parameters (such as macroeconomic environment trends, and others), which affect the fair value of our real estate and investments, vary from time to time, the fair value may not be adequate on a date other than the date the measurement was executed (in general, immediately after the balance sheet date). In the event the projected forecasts regarding the future cash flows generated by those assets are not met, we may have to record an additional impairment loss not previously recorded. In addition, the fair value of our real estate assets is highly dependent on the yield rates attributable to these assets. Therefore, any change in the yield rate or interest rate of any of our real estate assets may cause a significant decrease to the fair value of such assets, thereby resulting in potential impairment losses not previously recorded in our financial results. The failure to comply with government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. All of our business is subject to numerous national and local government regulations, including those relating to acquisition of real estate properties, building and zoning requirements, fire safety control, access for the disabled, environmental law and health board reviews and standards. In addition, we are subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and work permit requirements, and in some localities to collective labor agreements. A determination that we (or any of our tenants, where applicable) are not in compliance with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and significant expenses in bringing our operations into compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, our ability to dismiss unneeded staff may be hampered by local labor laws and courts which traditionally favor employees in disputes with former employers. Operating globally exposes us to additional and unpredictable risks. We conduct our businesses throughout the world and constantly seek new opportunities in various regions of the world. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors relating to international transactions, including changes in exchange rates, general economic conditions, regulatory requirements, tax structures or changes in tax laws or practices, and longer payment cycles in the countries in our geographic areas of operations. International operations may be limited or disrupted by the imposition of governmental controls and regulations, political instability, hostilities, natural disasters and difficulties in managing international operations. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A failure to effectively manage the expansion of our business could have a negative impact on our business. To accommodate our global expansion, we are continuously implementing new or expanded business systems, procedures and controls. There can be no assurance that the implementation of such systems, procedures, controls and other internal systems can be completed successfully. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders of ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets, averaged quarterly, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC"), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A determination that we are a PFIC could cause our U.S. shareholders to suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gains rates, and being subject to an interest charge on such gain. Similar rules apply to certain "excess distributions" made with respect to our ordinary shares. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. See "Item 10.E. Taxation - Tax consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company" below. 11 We are subject to various legal proceedings that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain legal proceedings have been initiated against us, including litigation in connection with the change of control of us and our former subsidiary Elscint Ltd. ("Elscint," which was merged into us in 2010) in May 1999 and the acquisition of the hotel businesses by Elscint in September 1999, as well as motions to certify certain of such claims as class actions and litigation by an individual who claims to have rights to a percentage in us and certain of our subsidiaries. For details refer to note 23B(3) in our annual consolidated financial statements. A determination against us in some or all of these proceedings, mainly those related to class actions, may materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our results of operations fluctuate due to the seasonality of our various businesses. Our annual revenues and earnings are substantially dependent upon general business activity, vacation and holiday seasons and the influence of weather conditions. As a result, changes in any of the above have a disproportionate effect on the annual results of operations of our hotels and fashion retail businesses. One of our shareholders beneficially owns a substantial amount of our ordinary shares and, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. As of March 31, 2012, Mordechay Zisser, our Executive President and a director, held, directly and indirectly, approximately 49.04% of our issued share capital. For additional information, see "Item 7.A. Major Shareholders." As a result of such holdings, Mr. Zisser has the ability, in effect, to elect the members of our board of directors and to effectively control the outcome of shareholder votes, subject to limitations under the Companies Law. Certain of these shares are pledged as security to lending banks. Change and/or transfer of control in us, either voluntarily as a result from a willful event or as a result from a compulsory foreclosure event with respect to shares that are pledged as security to lending banks, may result in a violation of contractual undertakings made by us towards third parties and/or vest third parties with rights to cancel agreements concluded by these third parties and us, including immediate prepayment of loans and/or credits taken by us. A dispute has arisen between Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (the "Bank") and our controlling shareholder, Europe-Israel (M.M.S.) Ltd. ("Europe-Israel") which is controlled by Mr. Zisser (and together with Europe-Israel – the "Controlling Shareholder") concerning loans and credits of the Controlling Shareholder to the Bank that were secured, inter alia, through pledging some of our shares held by the Controlling Shareholder. Following the above, it should be noted that we are not a party to the negotiations and/or communications between the disputing parties and are not familiar with their contents, however, the aforementioned dispute, if not resolved, may negatively impact our relationship with the Bank. A loss of the services of members of our senior management, including in particular, that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations We depend on the continued services of the members of our senior management team, including in particular that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, our Executive President and a director. Any loss of the services of Mr. Mordechay Zisser or any other member of our senior management team could result in the loss of expertise necessary for us to succeed, which could cause harm to our operating results and cash flow and impair our ability to meet our objectives. See "Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Compensation of Directors and Officers – Services of Mr. Mordechay Zisser." 12 Our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate, which may cause the market price of our shares and debentures to decline. We have experienced at times in the past, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results which may cause the market price of our shares and debentures to decline. These fluctuations may be caused by various factors including, among other things, significant sales of our properties, the frequency of such transactions as well as changes in valuations of shopping centers in the United States and the effect on certain financial investments that are measured at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) that are subject to market price. We periodically review our business to identify opportunities for the acquisition, development or sale of new commercial centers, hotels or other businesses. As a result of our disposition and acquisition or development of centers, we may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and that investors should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. We may be restricted from receiving dividends from PC until 2013, which may harm our liquidity. Following PC's announcement on September 14, 2011 to make an interim cash dividend payment and the subsequent undertaking to its bondholders with respect to future distributions (see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview" below), we will be restricted in the amount of distributions we may receive from PC during 2012 and 2013. This will reduce one of our cash resources and may affect our liquidity during such periods. RISKS RELATING TO THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS Suitable locations are critical to the success of a shopping and entertainment center; however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such suitable locations, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The choice of suitable locations for the development of shopping and entertainment center projects is an important factor in the success of the individual projects. Ideally, these sites should be located: (i) within, or near, the city center, with well-developed transportation infrastructure (road and rail) located in close proximity to facilitate customer access; and (ii) in areas with sufficient population to support the centers. If we are not able to find sites in the target cities which meet these criteria or which meet our price range, this may materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We are dependent on attracting third parties to enter into lease agreements, and in particular on anchor tenants. We are dependent on our ability to enter into new leases on favorable terms with third parties, including anchor tenants (such as the operators of supermarkets, department stores, cinemas, national retail outlets and large electrical appliances stores) in order to receive a profitable price for each shopping and entertainment center or other development. Anchor stores in shopping and entertainment centers play an important part in generating customer traffic and making a center a desirable location for other tenants. We may find it more difficult to engage tenants to enter into leases during periods when market rents are increasing, or when general consumer activity is decreasing, or if there is competition for tenants from competing centers. The recent global economic slowdown, pressures that affect consumer confidence, job growth, energy costs and income gains can affect retail sales growth, and a continuing soft economic cycle (as well as vacancies and available spaces at other shopping centers as a result of the recession) may impact our ability to find tenants for our shopping and entertainment centers. Failure to attract tenants, the termination of a tenant’s lease, or the bankruptcy or economic decline of a tenant may adversely affect the price obtainable for the shopping and entertainment center and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of tenants to abide by the terms of their agreements may cause delays or result in a temporary or long term decline in rental income, the effects of which we may not be able to offset due to difficulties in finding a suitable replacement anchor tenant. Furthermore, the tenants or operators of units comprising part of a development may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental permits or licenses which are necessary for the operation of their respective businesses (for example, the inability of the operator of the proposed casino to be constructed as part of a shopping and entertainment project to maintain a gaming license due to its failure to qualify or comply with the applicant legal requirements). Where such operations are delayed or not permitted due to lack of necessary permits, a negative impact on the attractiveness of the project and on revenues and cash flows may result. 13 We may lease developed shopping and entertainment centers or other developments at below expected rental rates or sell at a price which is below what was expected or at a delayed date, which would materially harm our business. Our current strategy is to dispose of a shopping and entertainment center upon completion. If rental leases decrease below our expectations or if circumstances arise beyond our control, such as market prices, market demand and negative trends, we may have to sell a shopping and entertainment center at a price below our projections. In addition, we could be in the position where there will be no demand at acceptable prices and we will be required to hold, operate and maintain the shopping center until the financial environment improves and allows its disposal. This will cause a considerable delay in the sale of the asset and will require us to devote (or acquire by way of outsourcing) the resources required for its operation and maintenance. Competition is becoming more aggressive in certain countries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The shopping and entertainment centers business in CEE and in India is becoming more competitive with a number of developers becoming active in our target areas, such as Globe Trade Centre SA, ECE Projekt Management GmbH and TriGranit Holding Limited in CEE. The shopping and entertainment centers concept we promote is gaining increasing popularity due to its potentially high yields. Developers compete not only for patrons, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, qualified contractors, experienced system consultants, expert marketing agents and skilled labor. The public bidding process (the process through which we often acquire new properties) in CEE, and the prime locations in general, are subject to competition and some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, all of which may limit our ability to obtain such projects. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in winning projects that we bid for or which are awarded pursuant to fixed price tenders or that we will otherwise continue to be successful in competing in such countries for prime and selected locations. If we find and acquire a location that is suitable for the development of a shopping and entertainment center, the suitability of that location may be adversely affected by external factors such as a competing shopping center opening in the same area, demographic trends and urban development and changes which may impact the character of the target or potential customers of the shopping center, and other factors that may impact the shopping center’s operations. In the event that the suitability of a location is adversely affected, the development of our shopping and entertainment center may be delayed or abandoned. In such circumstances, there is no guarantee that we will be able to use the site for an alternative development or be able to sell the site. We may be required to make payments to tenants in occupancy who enjoy enhanced occupational rights in order to vacate the premises, which may result in budget overruns. We may acquire development sites or existing shopping and entertainment centers that have existing tenants. In so doing, we may acquire lease liabilities and obligations in connection with such acquisitions. As a consequence, our earnings may be affected to the extent that we are obliged to give continued occupancy to tenants with lease payments below market rates for the refurbished or redeveloped center. In addition, we may incur costs in obtaining vacant possession of a site where there are existing tenants who have protected occupancy rights. We may be required to make additional ex gratia payments to such tenants in order to obtain vacant possession before the contractual expiration of such tenants' lease terms. Such payments may result in budget overruns for the project. We may also be obliged to relocate existing tenants, which could delay the development of the site and add to the cost of development. Any of the above costs may also apply should we desire to improve the mixture of tenants, while replacing current lessees, as even if the new mixture is expected to generate more revenues in the long run (which also may not be realized), the above costs will occur in an immediate manner. There is no assurance that we will successfully implement our construct and dispose strategy on the shopping and entertainment business and in such event our results may be materially adversely affected. Our strategy in the shopping and entertainment centers business is to dispose of centers upon completion or to retain and operate a shopping and entertainment center on completion, until economic conditions warrant a profitable sale, if that is likely to be more profitable to us than disposing of it. Our decision to sell properties is based on various factors, including market conditions, and we cannot predict when such sales will actually occur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete dispositions under commercially reasonable terms or at all. Accordingly, our results of operation can be materially adversely affected. 14 RISKS RELATED TO UNITED STATES REAL PROPERTY RISKS RELATED TO THE U.S. INVESTMENT FUND Our operations and investment in shopping and entertainment centers in the United States have only recently commenced and may not succeed. Although we have operated in the United States for nearly two years and are currently selling most of our portfolio there, we have a limited operating history upon which investors can evaluate our anticipated performance in our investments in real property in the United States. Further, some of our principals have a limited history in managing investments in the U.S. real estate market. We cannot assure that our investments will be successful, that our investment objectives will be realized, that we will be able to find attractive investments or that any benefits or advantages to investors will be available or accomplished. We intend for our U.S. investment platform to be highly leveraged and may as a result incur high financing risks. We intend for our U.S. investment platform to borrow funds to increase its buying power and potential returns to investors. Market conditions may decrease significantly the availability and increase the cost of real estate mortgage loans or other forms of finance. The amount of leverage used will decrease the investment return if we fail to earn as much on investments purchased with borrowed funds as it is charged for the use of those funds. The use of leverage will also allow us to borrow in order to make additional investments, thereby increasing our exposure to assets, such that our total assets are greater than the aggregate amount of the commitments to our U.S. investment platform. The use of leverage will, therefore, magnify the volatility of changes in the value of our U.S. investment platform's investments. Our borrowings will be secured by the investment portfolio. If we default on indebtedness secured by any or all of our property, the financing party may foreclose and we may lose our entire investment in such property. Under certain circumstances pursuant to the conditions of a loan, we may be required to liquidate all or a portion of our investments to pay off the loan. Liquidation under those circumstances could have adverse consequences. Funds borrowed for leveraging will be subject to interest costs that may or may not be recovered by the return on the investment portfolio. We intend to use REITs for our investments in the United States. Failure of a portfolio company to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect its operations and ability to make distributions. We intend to operate certain of our portfolio companies in a manner designed to permit it to qualify as a real estate investment trust (a "REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, commencing with the taxable year in which an election to be taxable as a REIT is made. A portfolio company’s qualification as a REIT will depend on its satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a portfolio company’s control. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through operating entities, as our portfolio companies may hold. Moreover, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of that qualification. If one of our a portfolio companies were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year (as happened recently to our two REITs in the United States), it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portfolio company’s taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, a portfolio company would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its REIT status. A loss of a portfolio company’s REIT status would mean a reduction in its net earnings available for investment or distribution because of the additional tax liability. Additionally, distributions to investors would no longer be deductible in computing a portfolio company’s taxable income and it would no longer be required to make annual distributions. To the extent that distributions had been made in anticipation of a portfolio company's qualifying as a REIT, a portfolio company may be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable corporate income tax. Furthermore, although a portfolio company intends to operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause a portfolio company’s board of directors to recommend that a portfolio company revoke its REIT election. 15 Statutory and regulatory requirements in the United States may limit or impose restrictions on our investment opportunities in the United States. Local laws and regulations in the United States will require the consultation of U.S. legal experts, often at considerable expense. The governmental bodies and bureaucracy that exists in the United States (e.g., various authorizations and permits required for building and zoning, length of time for processing applications and filings, etc.) may impose regulatory and operational difficulties affecting the real estate projects in which we invest. The shopping and entertainment centers business is subject to heavy regulation, including with respect to acquisition of real estate properties, building and zoning requirements and fire safety control. In addition, we will be subject to laws governing its relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and work permit requirements and possibly collective labor agreements. A determination that we or our portfolio companies are not in compliance with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and significant expenses in bringing our shopping and entertainment centers into compliance with the regulations. In addition, our ability to make headcount reductions may be hampered by labor laws and courts which traditionally favor employees in disputes with former employers. General financial and other risks that apply to the United States real estate investment portfolio may impact the U.S. real estate investment fund, EPN Real Estate Fund, LP (the “Fund”). General financial and other risks that are outlined below under "Risks Related to Our U.S. Real Estate Investment Portfolio" with respect to our U.S. real estate investment portfolio, would naturally impact the Fund which holds that portfolio and hence, such risks might have an adverse affect on the Fund. RISKS RELATED TO OUR U.S. REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO Our U.S. real estate investment portfolios consist mainly of community shopping centers throughout the major regions of the United States. As such, many of the risk factors mentioned elsewhere in this annual report in connection with our shopping and entertainment centers business in Europe and elsewhere apply to our U.S. real estate investment portfolios as well. These include the risk factors included in the section entitled "Risk Factors – General Risks" and the risk factors entitled: · "We are dependent on attracting third parties to enter into lease agreements, and in particular on anchor tenants"; · "Some of our shopping and entertainment centers are co-owned and control of such investments are shared with third parties"; · "The failure to comply with government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations"; and · "The fair value of our real estate assets may be harmed by certain factors, which may entail impairment losses not previously recorded which, in turn, will affect our financial results." 16 The pending sale of EPN Group’s Properties involves a variety of risks. In January 2012, the EPN Group entered into an agreement to sell 47 shopping centers located throughout the United States (the "Properties") that were previously held by EDT Retail Trust (formerly Macquarie DDR Trust) ("EDT"), to BRE DDR Retail Holdings LLC, a joint venture between Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII L.P. and/or its affiliates and DDR Corp. and/or its affiliates. The transaction is expected to close in June 2012. See "Item 4.B Business Overview – United States Real Property - Real Estate Investment Portfolio - EDT Retail Trust" below for further details. The closing of this sale is subject to various conditions, including obtaining consents from the lenders to allow the purchaser to assume certain of the existing debt of the entities owning the Properties and satisfaction of certain other customary closing conditions, such as obtaining tenant estoppels, accuracy of certain representations and warranties given in the agreement at signing, delivery of title, etc., all in accordance with the terms and conditions of the purchase and sale agreement. In addition, the buyer may terminate the agreement in the event that any material portion of the Properties is damaged, destroyed, condemned or subject to eminent domain proceedings resulting in aggregate costs or impairment in excess of $40 million. If any of the conditions precedent in the agreement are not fulfilled or if the above described material casualty event occurs, we may not be able to complete the sale of the Properties and we would be exposed to a variety of risks, such as: · our business may be harmed and our ability to sell the Properties in the future may be impaired. In addition, we will be forced to evaluate other alternatives, which may be less favorable to us than the proposed sale; · we will run the risk of disruption of our business without any commensurate benefit. The diversion of management attention from the day-to-day business of the Properties to undertake the necessary actions to achieve the closing of the transaction may detrimentally affect our business. Our executive officers and other employees will have expended extensive time and effort and will have experienced significant distractions from their work during the pendency of the transaction without any commensurate benefit, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations; · According to our 2012 business plan, the proposed sale of the Properties constitutes a significant source of cash for us and PC in the coming years. If we fail to complete the transaction, we and PC would have to find alternative sources of cash in order to pay our outstanding debts and achieve our business goals. In addition, failure to complete the sale might cause loss of confidence in our traded securities (shares and debentures) by our investors which in turn could cause additional difficulties in raising cash in the capital markets which might affect our business and operations in the coming years; and · we may lose the ability to present a successful track-record, which might have a negative impact on our ability to raise funds and to engage with co-investors for additional investments in the U.S. retail real estate market. Ongoing economic conditions are adversely affecting the general retail environment. Our portfolio's concentration in the U.S. retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and terrorist activities. Our portfolio derives its cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom are currently under considerable economic stress. A significant deterioration in our portfolio's cash flow from operations could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing. In addition, there is the risk that the current adverse economic and credit conditions that are negatively impacting us will worsen or will take longer to improve than anticipated. In particular, a further decline or weaker recovery in property markets in the United States, further decline or slower recovery in global general economic conditions or adverse currency movements may have an adverse impact on our portfolio's net income, leverage, ability to reinstate distributions and net tangible assets. Inability to refinance acquired properties which are subject to existing loans, might impact our financial results, yield or the attractiveness of the properties so acquired. Part of the portfolios or properties acquired by us are subject to existing loans and financing that could have been granted on terms and conditions that are not favorable to the borrower compared to the now existing market terms, or that were subject to distressed conditions. We intend to refinance those loans to improve their financial terms and increase potential returns to investors. The refinancing activities will also allow us to leverage our investments in order to increase our buying power and make additional investments (although this will increase our exposure to financial risks as described under “We Intend for Our U.S. Investment Platform To Be Highly Leveraged and May as a Result Incur High Financing Risks” above). In addition, existing loans could have short maturities or adjacent maturity dates vis-à-vis other loans, which, in the aggregate, could have a burdensome effect on our U.S. activities or require further investment or injection of equity due to the need to finance or repay few loans in a relatively short period. There is no assurance we will be able to refinance those unfavorable loans or improve their terms. 17 Our properties operate in a competitive environment, which may affect our income and asset values. The companies in our portfolio operate in a competitive environment for assets, income, debt and capital. Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites. Competition may come from regional malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects. The presence of competitive alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our properties. The existence of such competition may affect our ability to maintain our income and asset values, as well as raise the necessary debt and capital to operate our capital management program. Property management and leasing are provided by third party providers that may at times have other business interest that are inconsistent with ours. Certain third parties that provide management and leasing services for our U.S. investment platform may provide similar services for other real estate properties or portfolios or may hold properties of their own in close vicinity to ours. In these capacities, such third parties may make decisions for other persons during the same period that are contrary to the interests of our portfolio of companies. Our third party service providers may use their knowledge of our portfolio in advising other persons that may be in competition with us to attract tenants or other clientele. There can be no assurance that these third party service providers will always act in a manner that is to our benefit. We depend on service providers to provide property management services to our properties. We rely on property management companies to provide management and leasing services for our U.S. investment platform. If we cannot enter into property management arrangements or maintain the existing property management agreements for the properties purchased on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will incur additional costs which will have an adverse effect on our business. By relying on service providers, we become subject to a number of risks relating to these entities, such as quality of performance, varied work ethics, low performance, breach or non-performance of agreements and the financial stability of the service providers. We are subject to inherent risks associated with real estate purchase transactions. Our investment activity is based on the acquisition of existing portfolios or properties. As such, those acquisition transactions bear inherent risks usually associated with such transactions, such as, but not limited to, breach of representations by the seller, title defects, environmental problems, incomplete or misleading information with respect to the financial results of the shopping center, lease income, lease periods, disputes with tenants, and border disputes. Although we conduct due diligence investigations, we might not identify critical items or findings, or may be provided with insufficient, incomplete, inaccurate or wrong information that might lead to wrong conclusions or findings that could have an adverse affect on the transaction. We usually include indemnity clauses in our purchase agreements, however, in practice such indemnification is limited in amount and may not necessarily cover all the potential exposure. Some of the potential losses of our portfolio investments may not be covered by insurance. There are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, the companies in our portfolio could lose all or a portion of the capital they invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, such company may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Furthermore, any lack of financial strength and/or inability of its insurers to meet their indemnity obligations if called upon may adversely affect our portfolio companies. 18 RISKS RELATING TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS The hotel industry may be affected by economic conditions, oversupply, travel patterns, weather and other conditions beyond our control which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The hotel industry may be adversely affected by changes in national or local economic conditions and other local market conditions, especially in times of economic crisis. Our hotels, and particularly our hotels in Antwerp and Bucharest, may be subject to the risk of oversupply of hotel rooms. Other general risks that may affect our hotel business are changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions, changes in governmental regulations which influence or determine wages, workers’ union activities, changes in interest rates, the availability of financing for operating or capital needs, and changes in real estate tax rates and other current operating expenses. Unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, volcanic eruptions, extreme weather conditions, outbreaks of epidemics and health concerns (such as SARS, avian flu, swine flu) and the economic recession had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on local and international travel patterns and, as a result, on occupancy rates and rates in our hotels. Downturns or prolonged adverse conditions in the real estate or capital markets or in national or local economies and difficulties in securing financing for the development of hotels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow, ability to develop new projects and the attainment of our strategic goals. Competition in the hotels industry could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The hotel business is highly competitive. This is particularly the case in those areas where there is an oversupply of rooms, such as in Antwerp and Bucharest. Competitive factors within the industry include: (i) convenience of location and accessibility to business centers; (ii) room rates; (iii) quality of accommodations; (iv) brand name recognition; (v) quality and nature of service and guest facilities provided; (vi) reputation; (vii) convenience and ease of reservation systems; and (viii) the supply and availability of alternative lodging. We operate most of our hotels in geographic locations where other hotels are or may be located. We expect to compete for guests and development sites with national chains, large franchisees and independent operators. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources and better brand name recognition than we do, and may have more established relationships with prospective franchisers, representatives in the construction industry and other parties engaged in the lodging industry. The number of competitive lodging facilities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our hotel occupancy and rates and, therefore, revenues and results of our hotels. We believe that competition within the lodging market may increase in the foreseeable future. New or existing competitors may significantly reduce their rates or offer greater convenience, services or amenities or significantly expand or improve hotels in the markets in which we currently or may subsequently compete, thereby materially adversely affecting our business and results of operations. We rely on management agreements with the Rezidor Hotel Group which may not provide the intended benefits, and may be terminated. Significant decline in the reputation of the Rezidor Hotel Group or in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our results of operation. Our hotels in Belgium and our Radisson hotel complex in Bucharest are either directly or indirectly operated under long-term management agreements with the Rezidor Hotel Group ("Rezidor"). Any significant decline in the reputation of Rezidor or in its ability to ensure the performance of our hotels at anticipated levels could adversely affect our results of operations. If our agreement with Rezidor is terminated, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain alternative management services of the same standard on similar or better terms. The long-term management arrangements entail additional risks, including the possibility that: (i) Rezidor might, at any time, have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with ours or with the management of the specific hotels; (ii) Rezidor may be in breach of the agreements or in a position to take action contrary to the agreements, or frustrate the execution of acts which we believe to be in the interests of any particular hotel; and (iii) Rezidor might become bankrupt or insolvent. 19 Disputes or disagreements with Rezidor could result in interruption to the business operations of the hotels in question, and impact the financial condition and results of operations of our hotels division which may be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with Rezidor impose obligations on us that may force us to incur significant costs. Our agreements with Rezidor, the management companies of all of our operating hotels, contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, hotel operation and maintenance. These standards, restrictions and limitations may conflict with our priorities, and impose capital demands upon us. In addition, Rezidor may alter its standards or hinder our ability to improve or modify our hotels. We may be forced to incur significant costs or make capital improvements in order to comply with the requirements of Rezidor and, if our relationship with Rezidor is terminated, to change the franchise affiliation of our affected hotels. The value of our investment in our hotel properties is subject to various risks related to ownership and operation of real property. Our investment in hotel properties is subject to varying degrees of risk related to the ownership and operation of real property. The fair value of our hotels and income from the hotels may be materially adversely affected by: · changes in global and national economic conditions, including global or national recession, such as those triggered by the recent economic crisis; · a general or local slowdown in the real property market which may make it difficult to sell a property, such as the recent global slowdown; · political events that may have a material adverse effect on the hotel industry; · competition from other lodging facilities, and oversupply of hotel rooms in a specific location; · material changes in operating expenses, including as a result of changes in real property tax systems or rates or labor laws; · changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; · the effect of present or future environmental laws; · our ongoing need for capital improvements and refurbishments; and · material changes in governmental rules and policies. RISKS RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS The residential development industry continues to be cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate or other business conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial results. The residential development industry has been cyclical historically and continues to be significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: · employment levels; · availability of financing for homebuyers; · interest rates; · consumer confidence; · levels of new and existing homes for sale; 20 · demographic trends; · urban development and changes; · housing demand; · local laws and regulations; and · acts of terror, floods or earthquakes. These may occur on a global scale, like the recent housing downturn, or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other residential development companies. Our operations where we have significant inventory will more adversely affect our financial results than our other markets. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other existing homes and rental properties, can also reduce our ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes. As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be less able or willing to buy our homes, or we may need longer periods of time or incur more costs to build them. Because of current market conditions, we may not be able to recapture any increased costs by raising prices and our ability to do so may also be limited by market conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings or the affordability of our homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers cancel or do not honor their contracts. If prospective home buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may decline. Our results of operations depend on the ability of prospective home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. The uncertainties created by world-wide events in the mortgage markets and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of our prospective customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing prospective home buyers from purchasing our homes. Moreover, increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent prospective home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where prospective customers may need to sell their existing homes in order to purchase a new home from us, increases in mortgage costs and/or lack of availability of mortgages could prevent the buyers of our prospective customers' existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete the purchase, which would result in our prospective customers’ inability to buy a home from us. Similar risks apply to those buyers who are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our home buyers, potential buyers or buyers of our home buyers’ current homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may have excess land inventory if we are not successful in completing residential projects and selling homes profitably. Inventory risks are substantial for our residential development business. The risks inherent in controlling or purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have provided conditional undertakings to purchase land or bought and developed land at a cost we will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the present weak market conditions, we may have to sell homes and developed land for lower margins or at a loss and we may record significant inventory impairment charges. Our goals for years of supply for ownership and control of land and building lots are based on management’s expectations for future volume growth. In light of the weaker market conditions currently prevailing, we might have to significantly slow our purchases of land and lots as part of our strategy to reduce our inventory to better match our reduced rate of production. Because future market conditions are uncertain, we cannot provide assurance that these measures would be successful in managing our future inventory risks. 21 We may not be able to achieve ample supply levels in order to meet schedules for housing projects. The residential development industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of construction, including: · difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers would like to live; · shortages of qualified trades people; · reliance on local subcontractors, who may be inadequately capitalized; · shortages of materials; and · volatile increases in the cost of labor and materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. The failure to complete a particular project on schedule or on budget may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS, TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS AND TO THE RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS BUSINESS Zoning restriction and local opposition can delay or prevent construction of a project. Sites which meet our criteria must be zoned for activities of the type common for such use and developments. Where the existing zoning is not suitable or has yet to be determined, we apply for the required zoning classifications. This procedure may be protracted, particularly in countries where the bureaucracy is cumbersome and inefficient, and we cannot be certain that the process of obtaining proper zoning will be completed in a timely manner to enable the centers to open ahead of the competition or at all. Opposition by local residents to zoning and/or building permit applications may also cause considerable delays or even rejection of such applications. In addition, arbitrary changes to applicable zoning may jeopardize projects that have already commenced. Therefore, if we cannot receive zoning approvals or if the procedures for the receipt of such zoning approvals are delayed, our costs will increase and competition may strengthen, which will have an adverse effect on our business. Building permits may contain conditions that we must satisfy in order to develop a project. Such conditions may require us to contribute to local infrastructure or alter a planned development to include additional landscaping or planted areas. If we are obligated to maintain certain areas of the project site as “green areas” this may reduce areas that contribute to revenues, such as leasable areas, hotel rooms, commercial space and apartments, which in turn may reduce potential revenues while increasing development costs. Certain zoning permits are granted for limited time periods and if the term is not extended the rights revert back to the local government or municipality. Furthermore, these rights may be subject to termination under certain circumstances by the government and any termination prior to the expiration of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. We depend on contractors and subcontractors to construct our real estate, which may lead to increased development and construction costs and the loss of our competitive advantage. We rely on subcontractors for all of our construction and development activities. If we cannot enter into subcontracting arrangements on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will incur additional costs which will have an adverse effect on our business. The competition for the services of quality contractors and subcontractors may cause delays in construction, thus exposing us to a loss of our competitive advantage. Subcontracting arrangements may be on less favorable terms than would otherwise be available, which may result in increased development and construction costs. By relying on subcontractors, we become subject to a number of risks relating to these entities, such as quality of performance, varied work ethics, performance delays, construction defects, breach or non-performance of agreements and the financial stability of the subcontractors. A shortage of workers (or materials) would have a detrimental effect on us and our subcontractors and, as a result, on our ability to conclude construction phases on time and within budget. We generally require our subcontractors to provide bank guarantees in our favor to financially secure their performance. In the event the subcontractor fails to perform, the bank guarantees provide for a monetary payment to us. The guarantees do not, however, obligate the subcontractors to complete the project and may not adequately cover our costs of completing the project or our lost profits during the period while alternative means of completing the project are sought. 22 We may depend on business partners to jointly construct projects under certain joint venture/joint development projects, which may lead to increased development and construction costs and the loss of our competitive advantage. Some of our projects are co-owned and control of such investments are shared with third parties. In certain projects we rely on local joint venture partners to work with us in developing the project, which, in certain cases, may be awarded the performance of construction work, obtaining of permits, marketing and sales or any combination of the above. In such projects, we rely on our partner to perform its scope of work under the joint venture or joint development agreement. If our partner does not perform for any reason (either due to default, bankruptcy or other reasons), or if we cannot enter into agreements with the partner to perform these tasks on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will incur additional costs, or enter into a deadlock, which will have an adverse effect on our business. Such occurrences may cause delays in construction, thus exposing us to a loss of our competitive advantage. By relying on partners, we become subject to a number of risks relating to these entities, such as quality of performance, varied work ethics, performance delays, construction defects, breach or non-performance of agreements and the financial stability of the partner. Some of our projects are held through joint venture arrangements with third parties with whom we share ownership and control of such assets. As a result, these arrangements entail risks in addition to those associated with projects in which we own a controlling interest, including the possibility that: (i) our joint venture partner might, at any time, have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) our joint venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives, or frustrate the execution of acts which we believe to be in the interests of any particular project; (iii) our joint venture partner may have different objectives than us, including with respect to the appropriate timing and pricing of any sale or refinancing of a development and whether to enter into agreements with potential contractors, tenants or purchasers; (iv) our joint venture partner might become bankrupt or insolvent; and (v) we may be required to provide financing to make up any shortfall due to our joint venture partner failing to provide such equity finance or to furnish collaterals to the financing third parties. Disputes or disagreements with any of our joint venture partners could result in significant delays and increased costs associated with the development of our properties. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions (such as whether to sell, refinance or enter into a lease or contractor agreement and the terms on which to do so) may require approval from a joint venture partner or other third party. If we are unable to reach or maintain agreement with a joint venture partner or other third party on matters relating to the business operations, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Delays in the completion of construction projects could affect our success. An important element in the success of the construction process of our shopping and entertainment center projects is the short construction time (in CEE, generally 8 to 18 months from the receipt of building permits, depending on the size of the project and location), and our ability to open projects such as shopping centers ahead of our competitors, particularly in cities which do not have projects of the type constructed by us. This makes us subject to a number of risks relating to these activities, including: · The inability to obtain financing for development at attractive terms or at all; 23 · delays in obtaining zoning (or land classification, as the case may be for each jurisdiction) and other approvals; · the unavailability of materials and labor; · the abilities of subcontractors to complete work competently and on schedule; · the surface and subsurface condition of the land underlying the project; · environmental uncertainties; · extraordinary circumstances or "acts of god"; and · ordinary risks of construction that may hinder or delay the successful completion of a particular project. In addition, under our development contracts with local municipalities or governmental authorities, we have deadlines for several of our projects (subject to limited exceptions). If construction of a project does not proceed in accordance with our schedule, we may in some instances be required to pay penalties to the vendor (usually local municipalities, but may also be a governmental authority that has allotted the land) based on the extent of the delay and in rare cases to forfeit rights in the land. The failure to complete a particular project on schedule or on budget may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. Acquiring, developing and renovating real property involve substantial risks, and we cannot be certain of the success of any future projects. Part of our strategy is to develop new hotels, commercial centers or residential projects and to acquire and redevelop old or under-performing real estate assets. Acquiring, developing and renovating real property involves substantial risks, including: (i) costs exceeding budget or amounts agreed upon with contractors, because of various factors, such as delays in completion of construction; (ii) competition for acquisition of suitable development sites from competitors, who may have greater financial resources; (iii) the failure to obtain zoning and construction permits; (iv) unavailability of financing on favorable terms, if at all; (v) the failure of properties to earn profits sufficient to service debt incurred in construction or renovation, or at all; (vi) the failure to comply with labor and workers’ union legal requirements; (vii) relationships with and quality and timely performance by contractors and sub-contractors; and (viii) compliance with changes in governmental rules, regulations, planning and interpretations. We cannot be certain that present or future development or renovation will be successful. If we are not successful in future projects, it will have a material adverse effect on our business. For successful growth, we must be able to develop or acquire real property on attractive terms and integrate such properties into our existing operations. We cannot be certain that newly acquired (or constructed or refurbished) real property will perform as we expect or that we will be able to realize projected cost savings for acquired properties. We may be held liable for design or construction defects of third-party contractors. We rely on the quality and timely performance of construction activities by third-party contractors. Claims may be asserted against us by local government and zoning authorities or by third parties for personal injury and design or construction defects. These claims may not be covered by the professional liability insurance of the contractors or of the architects and consultants. These claims may give rise to significant liabilities. Shortages in raw materials and employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The building industry may from time to time experience fluctuating prices and shortages in the supply of raw materials as well as shortages of labor and other materials. The inability to obtain sufficient amounts of raw materials and to retain efficient employees on terms acceptable to us may delay construction and increase the budget of our projects and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. 24 Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Substantially all of our portfolio's total consolidated assets consist of investments in real properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to quickly sell one or more properties in the portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, current economic and capital market conditions might make it more difficult for us to sell properties or might adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers might experience increased costs of debt financing or other difficulties in obtaining debt financing. In addition, the number of prospective buyers interested in purchasing real estate properties may be limited. Therefore, if we want to sell one or more of the properties in our portfolio, we may not be able to dispose of the property in the desired time period and may receive less consideration than we originally invested in the property. Before a property can be sold, we may be required to make expenditures to correct defects or to make improvements. We cannot assure investors that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements, and if we cannot do so, we might not be able to sell the property, or might be required to sell the property on unfavorable terms. In acquiring a property, we might agree to provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as limitations on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Mixed-use projects combine versatile factors affecting individual components, failure of any of which may affect other components and may be detrimental to the mixed-use project. Our shopping and entertainment centers business and the residential projects, include the construction of mixed-use projects. Materialization of a risk specific to an individual component may affect other components of such mixed-use project and thereby the project as a whole. Environmental discoveries may have a significant impact on the budget, schedule, viability and marketability of our assets. We may encounter unforeseen construction delays or compliance defaults due to factors beyond our control such as delays or defaults caused by previously unknown soil contamination or the discovery of archeological findings which may have a significant impact on development budget and schedules and which may, in turn, have a detrimental effect on the viability or marketability of the development or cause legal liability in connection with a portfolio asset. We may be liable for the costs of removal, investigation or remedy of hazardous or toxic substances located on or in a site owned or leased by us, regardless of whether we were responsible for the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of any required removal, investigation or remedy of such substances may be substantial and/or may result in significant budget overruns and critical delays in construction schedules. The presence of such substances, or the failure to remedy such substances properly, may also adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such property or to obtain financing using the real estate as security. Additionally, any future sale of such property will be generally subject to indemnities to be provided by us to the purchaser against such environmental liabilities. Accordingly, we may continue to face potential environmental liabilities with respect to a particular property even after such property has been sold. Laws and regulations may also impose liability for the release of certain materials into the air or water from a property, and such release can form the basis for liability to third persons for personal injury or other damages. Other laws and regulations can limit the development of, and impose liability for, the disturbance of wetlands or the habitats of threatened or endangered species. Any environmental issue may significantly increase the cost of a development and/or cause delays, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of that development and our results of operations and cash flows. 25 There is an increasing awareness of environmental issues in CEE and India. This may be of critical importance in areas where soil pollution may be prevalent. If a property that we acquire turns out to be polluted, such a finding will adversely affect our ability to construct, develop and operate a shopping and entertainment center, a hotel or a residential project on such property, and may cause us to suffer expenses incurred in cleaning up the polluted site which may be significant. RISKS RELATING TO OUR MEDICAL COMPANIES InSightec Ltd., our subsidiary, is currently dependent on sales of the ExAblate for the treatment of uterine fibroids and the sale of research systems for its clinical research. Inability to sell the ExAblate at appropriate prices will result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our subsidiary, InSightec Ltd. ("InSightec"), received FDA approval in October 2004 to market the ExAblate in the United States only for the treatment of uterine fibroids. InSightec expects sales of the ExAblate to come from this application and from sales of research systems for the foreseeable future, depending upon the timing of regulatory approval of additional applications for the ExAblate. As a result, factors adversely affecting InSightec’s ability to sell, or pricing of or demand for, InSightec’s product would have a material adverse effect on InSightec's financial condition and results of operations, which would, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. If the ExAblate does not achieve broad market acceptance for the treatment of uterine fibroids, InSightec will not be able to generate sufficient sales to support its business. InSightec must achieve broad market acceptance of the ExAblate for the treatment of uterine fibroids among physicians, patients and third-party payors in order to generate sufficient sales to support its business. Physicians will not recommend the use of the ExAblate unless InSightec can demonstrate that it produces results comparable or superior to existing treatments for uterine fibroids. If long-term patient studies do not support InSightec’s existing clinical results, or if they indicate that the use of the ExAblate has negative side effects on patients, physicians may not adopt or not continue to use the ExAblate. Even if InSightec demonstrates the effectiveness of the ExAblate, physicians may still not use the system for a number of other reasons. Physicians may continue to recommend traditional uterine fibroid treatment options simply because those methods are already widely accepted and are based on established technologies. Patients may also be reluctant to undergo new, less established treatments for uterine fibroids. If, due to any of these factors, the ExAblate does not receive broad market acceptance among physicians or patients, InSightec will not generate significant sales. In this event, InSightec’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed, and InSightec’s ability to develop additional treatment applications for the ExAblate would be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain coverage and sufficient reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. Demand for the ExAblate, for commercial use, is likely to depend substantially on the extent to which sufficient reimbursement for treatment procedures using InSightec’s system will be available from third-party payors, such as private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations and, to a lesser degree, government payor programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region. InSightec believes that third-party payors will not provide reimbursement on a national basis for treatments using the ExAblate, unless InSightec can generate a sufficient amount of data through long-term patient studies to demonstrate that such treatments produce favorable results in a cost-effective manner relative to other treatments. Furthermore, InSightec could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of private healthcare or governmental payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement for treatment procedures using the ExAblate. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. 26 InSightec’s future growth substantially depends on its ability to develop and obtain regulatory clearance for additional treatment applications for the ExAblate. InSightec has received regulatory approvals to market the ExAblate in the United States, Israel, Canada, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Korea, Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Japan and the European Union Economic Area ("EEA"), which is comprised of the member nations of the European Union and certain additional European nations, solely for the treatment of uterine fibroids. In addition, in May 2007 InSightec received CE-marking (approval to market in the EEA) and in January 2008 it received Israeli approval for pain palliation of bone metastases. However, clinical experience for the bone metastases application is still in early stages and therefore commercial acceptance is expected to take some time. InSightec’s objective is to expand the use of the ExAblate by developing and introducing new treatment applications. InSightec is currently in various stages of product development and clinical studies for a number of new treatment applications for the ExAblate. It will be required to obtain FDA approval in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before marketing the ExAblate for these additional treatment applications. InSightec cannot guarantee that InSightec’s product development activities for these other applications will be successful and in such event, InSightec’s future growth will be harmed. In particular, InSightec’s future curative oncology treatment applications are subject to significant risks since these applications must be able to demonstrate complete ablation of malignant tumors, or meet or exceed the current medical standard related to the oncology application in question. If InSightec is unable to demonstrate this degree of efficacy, its future curative oncology treatment applications may not prove to be successful. In addition, assuming product development is successful, the regulatory processes can be lengthy, lasting many years in some cases, and expensive. We cannot assure that FDA approval or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of the ExAblate treatment for additional applications, InSightec is required to conduct extensive clinical studies which may take several years to demonstrate the therapeutic benefits and cost-effectiveness of these new treatment applications and products. Clinical trials are expensive and may take several years to complete. If future clinical trials indicate that the ExAblate is not as beneficial or cost-effective as existing treatment methods, or that such products cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen adverse events, InSightec may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the ExAblate for these additional treatment applications or obtain reimbursement coverage, and InSightec’s long-term growth would be seriously harmed. If the ExAblate is subject to a product recall, InSightec will not be able to generate sufficient sales to support its business. If the ExAblate does not comply with regulatory standards or if it is subject to reports of damaging effects to patients, it may be subject to a mandatory recall by the relevant authorities and sales may be stopped until it can clear regulatory approvals once again. A recall may harm the reputation of InSightec and its products and its ability to generate additional sales of the ExAblate may be adversely affected. InSightec is dependent on further capital investments. Until InSightec will achieve broad market acceptance of the ExAblate and be able to generate sufficient sales to support its business, it will need to obtain additional capital investments to support its business in general and, in particular, its significant research and development costs and expenses. The current volume of sales and backlog of InSightec will not suffice to maintain its current cash burn-rate and expenditure levels, and InSightec's inability to obtain additional funding sources, particularly capital investments, might have a material adverse effect on its business and/or ability to continue its operations. InSightec is dependent on General Electric. The ExAblate is compatible only with certain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems of GE Healthcare, a division of the General Electric Company ("GE"), which may limit InSightec’s potential market. A significant portion of the MRI systems in use in the United States and elsewhere are not GE MRI systems. InSightec has no current plans to develop a system that would be compatible with MRI systems manufactured by companies other than GE and is, therefore, limited in its target market to potential customers who already own or otherwise have access to a compatible GE MRI system, or are willing to purchase such a system in order to use the ExAblate. In addition, in the event that GE is unable to effectively market its MRI systems, InSightec’s ability to generate additional sales of the ExAblate may be adversely affected. 27 InSightec depends on its collaboration with GE to ensure the compatibility of the ExAblate with new models of GE MRI systems and upgrades to existing GE MRI systems. GE regularly develops new models of its MRI systems, as well as new capabilities for its existing MRI systems, which could affect their compatibility with the ExAblate. If InSightec is unable to receive information regarding new models of the GE MRI systems or upgrades to existing GE MRI systems, and coordinate corresponding upgrades to the ExAblate to ensure continued compatibility with new and existing GE MRI systems, its ability to generate sales of its system will be adversely affected. In addition, If InSightec is unable to coordinate new applications or upgrades with GE’s research and development team, it may be unable to develop such applications or upgrades in a timely manner and its future revenue growth may be seriously harmed. In addition, GE is not prohibited from marketing or manufacturing other focused ultrasound-based products that may compete with the ExAblate. In the event that GE chooses to distribute or manufacture medical devices that may compete with the ExAblate or other products based on the magnetic resonance guided focused ultrasound surgery ("MRgFUS") technology, InSightec’s sales may be adversely affected. If InSightec is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement could require InSightec to redesign its products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact InSightec’s future business and financial performance. InSightec’s success and ability to compete depends in large part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology. InSightec relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and on confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, in order to protect its intellectual property rights. A few of InSightec’s patents were transferred to InSightec from GE at the time of its formation, and GE retains a non-exclusive license to make, use and sell products covered under these patents in the imaging field only without InSightec’s permission. Prior to the transfer, GE had entered into cross-license agreements with respect to these patents with a number of companies, including some that may be potential competitors of InSightec. As a result of these cross license agreements, InSightec may not be able to enforce these patents against one or more of these companies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that InSightec’s existing or future patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that InSightec’s existing patents, or any patents, which may be issued as a result of existing or future applications, will provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to InSightec. Claims by competitors and other third parties that InSightec products allegedly infringe the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on InSightec’s business. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of InSightec’s technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject InSightec to significant liabilities or require InSightec to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. RISKS RELATING TO THE FASHION APPAREL BUSINESS Our fashion retail brand is dependent on one single franchise and supplier which could cause delays or disruptions in the delivery of products, which may harm our business and results of operations. Elbit Fashion Ltd. ("Elbit Fashion"), our wholly owned subsidiary, depends on franchises and supply of products from an individual supplier, Punto Fa S.L., which is the owner of the MANGO-MNG™ brand ("Punto Fa"). If such franchisor ends its relationship with Elbit Fashion or enter into liquidation, Elbit Fashion’s business in Israel with respect to the products supplied by such supplier will be terminated. In addition, Elbit Fashion relies on the supply of its products from such supplier and may face a shortage of inventory if there is a worldwide excess demand for a specific brand’s products. If either of these events occurs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 28 Our fashion retail brand operates only in Israel and is therefore exposed to Israeli market risks. Elbit Fashion operates only in Israel and therefore may be affected by risks associated with the Israeli market without the ability to mitigate such risks through operation in other regions not exposed to the same risks, influences and trends. For further details, see "Risks Relating to Israel" below. A rise in wage levels in Israel could adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s financial results. Elbit Fashion relies mainly on minimum wage employees. From time to time, the Israeli government increases the statutory minimum wage and minimum pension employer participation. If wage levels generally, and particularly the minimum wage in Israel, increase, Elbit Fashion’s results of operations could be harmed. The apparel industry is subject to changes in fashion preferences. If the manufacturers of products marketed by Elbit Fashion misjudge fashion trends, or if Elbit Fashion fails to choose from its supplier's inventory design products that appeal to our customers, our sales could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Neither our supplier (Punto Fa) nor Elbit Fashion may be successful in anticipating and responding to fashion trends in the future. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in part on the ability of our supplier's to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings far in advance. If they are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market or any new product lines, or if our supplier offers products that, although appropriate in the international market, do not account for particular Israeli taste and fashion preferences (as Israel is a small and negligible market from a worldwide perspective), or if we fail to choose from design products from our suppliers inventory that appeal to our customers’ changing fashion preferences, Elbit Fashion’s sales will decline and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold inventory. As a result, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our brand name may also suffer if customers believe merchandise misjudgments indicate that Mango no longer offer the latest or relevant fashions. A change in customs rates and custom and harbor strikes could adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s financial results. Elbit Fashion is subject to Israeli customs duty since all of its products are imported. An increase in customs rates on Elbit Fashion’s products could adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s ability to compete against local manufacturers or with products from countries which enjoy more favorable customs rates in Israel. On the other hand, a reduction in customs rates may encourage entrance penetration of new competitors to the market. In addition, since most, if not all, of Elbit Fashion’s products are imported, custom and harbor strikes and delays could adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s ability to meet customer demands in a timely manner and adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s financial results. Elbit Fashion may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive fashion retail industry, and Elbit Fashion’s competitors may have greater financial, geographic and other resources. The sale of fashion retail is highly competitive. Elbit Fashion competes directly with a number of Israeli and international brands some of which have longer operating histories and enjoy greater financial and marketing resources than Elbit Fashion. For example, as a result of their greater financial and marketing resources, Elbit Fashion’s competitors may have the ability to obtain better geographic locations for their stores in shopping and entertainment centers, with better traffic flow and access to customers, which would have a positive impact on their sales. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures or loss of market share to competitors and adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that Elbit Fashion will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Furthermore, Elbit Fashion has a single brand operation with the "Mango" brand and, hence, is exposed to risks associated with this brand and its success. During the recent past, the Israeli fashion apparel market has been characterized by mergers and acquisitions and expansion of retailers and franchisees to become multi-branded operators, enjoying the economics of scale, including, among other things, a better ability to obtain financing, strong bargaining power vis-à-vis shopping centers' owners (such as in regards to obtaining better locations and reduced lease rates for their stores), reduced overhead costs per each brand, and increased ability to mitigate and absorb seasonal or temporary decrease in sales volume in one brand by compensating through sales of another brand. This might lead to a loss of Mango's market share to such competitors and could materially adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s revenues and profitability and ability to compete successfully against such competitors. 29 Elbit Fashion relies on its ability to maintain its existing spread of stores and to expand to new favorable locations. Elbit Fashion's ability to open new stores depends on the availability of real estate that meets its strategic and marketing targets. Elbit Fashion must also be able to effectively renew its existing store leases in order to maintain its existing footprint in the Israeli market. Failure to secure adequate new locations or to successfully renew existing leases could affect Elbit Fashion’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. Elbit Fashion is subject to certain contractual obligations with its fashion supplier. Elbit Fashion is contractually obligated to purchase certain minimum quantities of stock from its suppliers and to maintain a certain spread of stores in which to sell the brands of its suppliers. A breach of these contractual obligations, or expenditures in complying with these obligations could affect Elbit Fashion’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. Elbit Fashion has no control over fluctuations in the cost of the raw materials it uses and a rise in costs could harm Elbit Fashion's profitability. Elbit Fashion buys its inventory from an international supplier, which is responsible for the design and manufacturing of all of Elbit Fashion’s products. The prices of the inventory that Elbit Fashion purchases from such supplier is dependent on its manufacturing costs. Manufacturing costs are substantially dependent on the prices of raw materials and level of wages in the countries where the products are manufactured. Therefore, an increase in the manufacturing costs will cause an increase in Elbit Fashion’s cost of goods sold and Elbit Fashion may not be able to pass on the increased costs to its customers. Such increased costs would likely adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. A devaluation of the NIS against foreign currencies could harm Elbit Fashion’s profitability. Elbit Fashion buys its entire inventory that it markets and sells from an international supplier. The purchase price of this inventory is in Euro while the selling price of such inventories in Israel is in NIS. Therefore, a devaluation of the NIS against the Euro will cause an increase in Elbit Fashion’s cost of goods sold expressed in NIS, and Elbit Fashion may not be able to pass the increased costs to its customers. This would likely adversely affect Elbit Fashion’s profitability, operational results and its financial conditions. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OTHER ACTIVITIES Our venture capital investments are speculative in nature and we may never realize any revenues or profits from these investments. We cannot be certain that our venture capital investments will result in revenues or profits. Economic, governmental, regulatory and industry factors outside our control affect our venture capital investments. If any one of our venture capital investee companies will not successfully implement its business plan we will not be able to realize any profits from it. Our ability to realize profits from these investments will be dependent upon the management of these companies, the success of its research and development activities, the timing of the marketing of its products and numerous other factors beyond our control. RISKS RELATING TO ISRAEL Security and economic conditions in Israel may affect our operations. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices are located in Israel. In addition, our operations in our other lines of business, such as Elbit Fashion and venture capital investments operate in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, various armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. In addition, acts of terrorism, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on the region of any diplomatic initiatives or political developments involving Israel or the Palestinians or other countries in the Middle East. Recent political events in various countries in the Middle East have shaken the stability of those countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. 30 Furthermore, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Many of our directors, officers and employees are obligated to perform military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Our directors, officers and employees who are male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The deteriorating security situation in the Middle East has caused, and will continue to cause, a sharp increase in the army reserve obligations of our directors, officers and employees who are subject to such reserve duty obligations. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect of any increase or reduction of these requirements on us. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets and all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; · no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and · the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. 31 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, which may depress out share price. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the "Companies Law") generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Shareholders may request appraisal rights in connection with a tender offer for a period of six months following the consummation of the tender offer, but the acquirer will be entitled to stipulate that tendering shareholders forfeit their appraisal rights. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of us, which could depress our share price. RISKS RELATING TO EASTERN EUROPE We are subject to various risks related to our operations in Eastern Europe, including economic and political instability, political and criminal corruption and the lack of experience and unpredictability of the civil justice system. Many of the Eastern European countries in which we operate are countries which were allied with the former Soviet Union under a communist economic system, and they are still subject to various risks. Certain Eastern European countries, in particular those countries that are not expected to join the European Union in the near future, are still economically and politically unstable and suffer from political and criminal corruption, lack of commercial experience, unpredictability of the civil justice system, land expropriation, changes in taxation legislation or regulation, changes to business practices or customs, changes to laws and regulations relating to currency repatriation and limitations on the level of foreign investment or development. Certain Eastern European countries also continue to suffer from high unemployment and low wages. These risks could be harmful to us and are very difficult to quantify or predict. Although many governments of Eastern European countries have liberalized policies on international trade, foreign ownership and development, investment, and currency repatriation to increase international trade and investment, such policies might change unexpectedly. We will be affected by the rules and regulations regarding foreign ownership of real and personal property. Such rules may change quickly and dramatically and thus may have an adverse impact on ownership and may result in a loss without recourse of our property or assets. Domestic and international laws and regulations, whether existing today or in the future, could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and could impair our profitability. 32 Certain Eastern European countries may regulate or require governmental approval for the repatriation of investment income, capital or the proceeds of sales of securities by foreign investors. In addition, if there is deterioration in a country’s balance of payments or for other reasons, a country may impose temporary restrictions on foreign capital remittances abroad. Any such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to repatriate investment loans or to remit dividends. Many emerging countries have experienced substantial, and in some periods extremely high, rates of inflation for many years. Inflation and rapid fluctuations in inflation rates have had and may continue to have negative effects on the economies and securities markets of certain emerging countries. In addition, in an attempt to control inflation, price controls at our hotels have been imposed at times in certain countries, which may affect our ability to increase our room rates. Certain Post-Communist Eastern Europe countries initiated legislation that cancels and nullifies transactions involving real estate that were subject to confiscation, condemnation or eminent domain proceeding by the former communist regime. While we make every effort to conduct thorough and reliable due diligence investigations, in some countries where former communist regimes carried out extensive land expropriations in the past, we may be faced with restitution claims by former land owners in respect of project sites acquired by it. If upheld, these claims would jeopardize the integrity of our title to the land and our ability to develop the land. RISKS RELATING TO INDIA Hostilities in India and other countries in Asia could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. India has from time to time experienced instances of internal terror attacks and hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan and China. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that companies operating in India are usually involved in higher degrees of risk. Events of this nature in the future, as well as social and civil unrest within other countries in Asia or within India, could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest due to religious strife. Changes in the economic policies of the Government of India or political instability could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector and significantly reducing the roles of the state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators. The Indian Government has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization pursued by previous governments. However, this trend of liberalization may not continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies generally affecting foreign investments, currency exchange, repatriation of profits and other matters affecting our investments, as well as specifically affecting the sectors of commercial activity in which we operate, could also change. A significant shift in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could materially adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, as well as our business operations in particular. In addition to potential economic instability, the Indian economy and business practices are relatively new and evolving, and there have been some instances of political and criminal corruption. Furthermore, India continues to suffer from high unemployment, low wages and low literacy rates. These risks could be harmful to us and are very difficult to quantify or predict. Indian governments are democratically elected, but are invariably comprised of a coalition of several political parties. The withdrawal of one or more of these parties from the coalition could cause the government to fall, resulting in political instability or stagnation pending new elections. Such events could delay or even halt the progress and development of the Indian economy and its receptiveness to foreign investment, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. 33 There is no assurance that our skills and experience can be applied successfully in our operations in India. While we believe that the skills and experiences that we have acquired through sourcing sites and developing and selling shopping and entertainment centers in the emerging markets in CEE can be applied successfully to projects in India or in other countries, this cannot be guaranteed. The differences between emerging markets in CEE and emerging markets in India or other countries, such as differing mentalities, social and business cultures, legal structures and systems, integrity of the courts, and restrictions on foreign ownership of real estate, may mean that our success in developing and selling shopping and entertainment centers in CEE may not be replicated in India or in other countries. Limitations by the Indian government to invest in India may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Under the Indian government's policy on Foreign Direct Investment ("FDI Policy"), an acquisition or investment by us in an Indian sector or activity, in particular in the shopping and entertainment centers business, which does not comply with certain limitations, is subject to governmental approval. With respect to the real estate sector, these limitations include, among other things, a minimum investment and minimum size of built-up land. In addition, under the FDI Policy it is not permitted for foreign investors to acquire agricultural land for real estate development purposes. There is no assurance that we will comply with the limitations prescribed in the FDI Policy in order to not be required to receive governmental approvals. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDI Policy will require us to receive governmental approvals which we may not be able to obtain or which may include limitations or conditions that will make the investment unviable or impossible, and non-compliance with investment restrictions may result in the imposition of penalties. This would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Uncertainty regarding the ownership of land in India may expose us to third party claims in connection with the purchase of land by us which may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. Under the laws of India, the registration of ownership in land with the land registration offices does not automatically guarantee lack of third party rights to such land, particularly with respect of rights which are transferred by inheritance. While we go to considerable lengths to ensure integrity of title in the real estate properties acquired by us, the system of recording ownership and rights in and to immovable property is not conclusive, which may expose us to third party claims in connection with such land. Restrictions on the repatriation of capital in India may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Pursuant to regulations promulgated under the FDI Policy and by the central bank of India, the repatriation of capital with regard to investments made in the real estate sector is subject to strict regulatory procedures, and is restricted during three years commencing on the date of such investment. If we are unable to repatriate capital from our investments in India, in whole or in part, this may have an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results of operations. 