D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which should be read in conjunction with all the other information presented in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Associated with Our Business We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. In the past five years, the financial systems worldwide have experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, general widening of spreads and, in some cases, lack of price transparency on interbank lending rates. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly between 2007 and 2009, and many countries fell into recession. Recessionary conditions continue in some countries. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies experienced, and some continue to experience, significant difficulties. Around the world, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital or have been assisted by governments, and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). In particular, we may face, among others, the following risks related to the economic downturn: — We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, may affect the pricing for our products and services, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. — Reduced demand for our products and services. — Inability of our borrowers to timely or fully comply with their existing obligations. — The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The degree of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process and the quality of our assets. 11 Table of Contents — The value and liquidity of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. — Worsening of the global economic conditions may delay the recovery of the international financial industry and impact our financial condition and results of operations. The recoverability of our consumer loans in particular may be increasingly vulnerable to macroeconomic shocks that could negatively impact the household income of our clients and result in increased loan losses. Some uncertainty remains concerning the future economic environment. While certain segments of the global economy are currently experiencing a moderate recovery, we expect such uncertainty will continue, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Global investor confidence remains cautious and downgrades of the sovereign debt of Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and France, as well as the recent developments and banking crisis in Cyprus, have caused volatility in the capital markets. A slowing or failing of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others in the financial services industry. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers and become unable to maintain certain liability maturities. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. If all or some of the foregoing risks were to materialize, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Credit, market and liquidity risk may have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and our cost of funds. Any downgrading in Chile’s our controlling shareholder’s or our credit rating would likely increase our cost of funding, require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts and adversely affect our interest margins and results of operations. Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, conditions that affect the financial services industry generally and the economic environment in which the company operates. During 2012, the three major risk rating agencies: Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”), Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”) and Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) downgraded Spain’s sovereign rating, due to the fiscal crises in Spain and in several other European countries. As a result, Santander Spain (our controlling shareholder) also had its credit rating downgraded by the three major rating agencies: Fitch (on June 11, 2012) from A to BBB+, Moody’s (on June 25, 2012) to Baa2 and S&P (on October 15, 2012) to BBB, which in each case was one notch above Spain’s sovereign rating. Following these downgrades, Moody’s placed our short- and long-term ratings on outlook negative. Fitch placed our long-term ratings on outlook negative. S&P downgraded our long-term foreign issuer credit rating by one notch to A in February 2012, and in June 2012, placed our long-term ratings on outlook negative. In December 2012, S&P changed its outlook on our rating to stable. All three rating agencies indicated that the reason for these changes was strictly due to the downgraded ratings over Spain’s sovereign credit ratings and Santander Spain’s credit ratings. 12 Table of Contents Our international funding costs have not been affected by the recent downgrades of Spain’s sovereign debt, Santander Spain’s debt and our related downgrades. In our domestic market, however, we did observe a slight rise in our funding spreads in comparison to some of our competitors in the deposit and bond market. These spreads had begun to recover and are comparable to those of Banco de Chile, the largest Bank in Chile, as of December 2012. Below is a table of our funding spreads in 2012 in comparison with those of Banco de Chile: Bond spread differential between Santander- Chile and Banco de Chile (bp) Difference between Santander-Chile and Banco de Chiledeposit rates in the secondary market (on an annual basis) 3Y duration 5Y duration 1-30 days 31-90 days 90 days or more Jan-12 30 15 Jan-12 0.12% 0.24% 0.24% Feb-12 15 15 Feb-12 0.00% (0.24%) 0.00% Mar-12 15 45 Mar-12 0.12% 0.12% 0.00% Apr-12 15 30 Apr-12 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% May-12 10 25 May-12 0.24% 0.12% 0.24% Jun-12 5 25 Jun-12 0.24% 0.24% 0.12% Jul-12 10 25 Jul-12 0.36% 0.12% 0.36% Aug-12 15 20 Aug-12 0.12% 0.12% 0.12% Sep-12 20 20 Sep-12 0.12% 0.00% (0.24%) Oct-12 30 20 Oct-12 0.36% 0.12% 0.00% Nov-12 25 20 Nov-12 0.36% 0.00% 0.00% Dec-12 10 10 Dec-12 0.12% 0.00% 0.00% Source: Santiago Stock Exchange Any downgrade in Chile’s credit rating for domestic and international debt, the credit ratings of our controlling shareholder or our own credit ratings would likely increase our borrowing costs and may require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts, and could limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect our commercial business. For example, a significant ratings downgrade could adversely affect our ability to sell or market certain of our products, such as subordinated securities, engage in certain longer-term and derivatives transactions and retain our clients, particularly clients who need a minimum rating threshold in order to invest. In addition, under the terms of certain of our derivative contracts, we may be required to maintain a minimum credit rating or terminate such contracts. Any of these results of a ratings downgrade, in turn, could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on us, including our operating results and financial condition. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain our current ratings or outlooks. Our failure to maintain favorable ratings and outlooks would likely increase our cost of funding and adversely affect our interest margins, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect our results of operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other private sector Chilean and non-Chilean banks, with Banco del Estado, the principal government-owned sector bank, with department stores and with larger supermarket chains that make consumer loans and sell other financial products to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower to middle-income segments of the Chilean population and the small- and mid- sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks and competition in these segments may increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments may decline. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from individuals and for small- and mid-sized companies will continue to grow, we cannot assure you that net interest margins will be maintained at their current levels. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. We expect the trends of increased competition and consolidation to continue and to result in the formation of large new financial groups. Consolidation in the industry, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. We also face competition from non-bank (such as department stores, insurance companies, cajas de compensación and cooperativas) and non-finance competitors (principally department stores and larger supermarket chains) with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans and insurance brokerage. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies with respect to savings products. 13 Table of Contents Increasing competition could require that we increase our rates offered on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans, which could also have a material adverse effect on us, including our profitability. It may also negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things, limiting our ability to increase our customer base and expand our operations and increasing competition for investment opportunities. In addition, if our customer service levels were perceived by the market to be materially below those of our competitor financial institutions, we could lose existing and potential business. If we are not successful in retaining and strengthening customer relationships, we may lose market share, incur losses on some or all of our activities or fail to attract new deposits or retain existing deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties, and we may not be able to manage various risks we face as we expand our range of products and services that could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our operations and our profitability depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties. However, we cannot guarantee that our new products and services will be responsive to client demands or successful once they are offered to our clients, or that they will be successful in the future. In addition, our clients’ needs or desires may change over time, and such changes may render our products and services obsolete, outdated or unattractive and we may not be able to develop new products that meet our clients’ changing needs. If we cannot respond in a timely fashion to the changing needs of our clients, we may lose clients, which could in turn materially and adversely affect us. As we expand the range of our products and services, some of which may be at an early stage of development in the markets of certain regions where we operate, we will be exposed to new and potentially increasingly complex risks and development expenses in those markets, with respect to which our experience and the experience of our partners may not be helpful. Our employees and our risk management systems may not be adequate to handle such risks. In addition, the cost of developing products that are not launched is likely to affect our results of operations. Any or all of these factors, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on us. The financial problems faced by our customers could adversely affect us. Market turmoil and economic recession could materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our borrowers, which could in turn increase our own non-performing loan ratios, impair our loan and other financial assets and result in decreased demand for borrowings in general. In addition, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. Any of the conditions described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market conditions have, and could result, in material changes to the estimated fair values of our financial assets. Negative fair value adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. In the past five years, financial markets have been subject to significant stress resulting in steep falls in perceived or actual financial asset values, particularly due to volatility in global financial markets and the resulting widening of credit spreads. We have material exposures to securities and other investments that are recorded at fair value and are therefore exposed to potential negative fair value adjustments. Asset valuations in future periods, reflecting then prevailing market conditions, may result in negative changes in the fair values of our financial assets and these may also translate into increased impairments. In addition, the value ultimately realized by us on disposal may be lower than the current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to record negative fair value adjustments, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or prospects. In addition, to the extent that fair values are determined using financial valuation models, such values may be inaccurate or subject to change, as the data used by such models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, particularly for illiquid assets, and particularly in times of economic instability. In such circumstances, our valuation methodologies require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates in order to 14 Table of Contents establish fair value, and reliable assumptions are difficult to make and are inherently uncertain and valuation models are complex, making them inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Any consequential impairments or write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to effectively control the level of non-performing or poor credit quality loans in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of our businesses. Non-performing or low credit quality loans can negatively impact our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively control the level of the impaired loans in our total loan portfolio. In particular, the amount of our reported non-performing loans may increase in the future as a result of growth in our total loan portfolio, including as a result of loan portfolios that we may acquire in the future, or factors beyond our control, such as adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in Chilean or global economic conditions, impact of political events, events affecting certain industries or events affecting financial markets and global economies. As of December 31, 2012, our non-performing loans were Ch$597,767 million, and the ratio of our non-performing loans to total loans was 3.15%. For additional information on our asset quality, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— F. Selected Statistical Information–Classification of Loan Portfolio Based on the Borrower’s Payment Performance.” We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems will be free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future actual losses to our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$550,048 million, the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to total loans was 2.90% and the ratio of loan loss allowances to total loans was 92.02%. The amount of the allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses and other assets require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—C. Operating Results–Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010—Provision for loan losses, net of recoveries.” We believe our allowance is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates of incurred losses, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional provisions for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable in the current economic climate and this may affect us, as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgage loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law that may affect our ability to foreclose or liquidate residential mortgages if the real estate in question has been declared as “family property” by a court. Family Property refers to a legal term in which a Family Court may declare a residential property as family property in a divorce or separation case. If this occurs, in the deed of the residence, a clause is included identifying the residence as family property and any process of change in ownership or foreclosure must have the consent of both the husband and the wife. This may limit our ability to foreclose on property with this legal status. 15 Table of Contents Our exposure to individuals and small and mid-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans, allowances for loan losses and charge-offs. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals (approximately 51.3% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012, if interbank loans are included) and, to a lesser extent, small- and mid-sized companies (those with annual revenues of less than U.S.$2.5 million), which comprised approximately 15.0% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012. As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small companies and individuals. Small companies and lower- to middle-income individuals are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy than large corporations and higher-income individuals. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, our residential mortgage loan portfolio totaled Ch$5,271,581 million, representing 27.8% of our total loans. See “Note 9—Interbank Loans” and “Note 10—Loans and Accounts Receivables from Customers” in our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description and presentation of our residential mortgage loan portfolio. If the economy and real estate market in Chile experience a significant downturn, as they may due to the global financial and economic crisis, this could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial conditions of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past-due loans, thereby resulting in higher provisions for loan losses and subsequent charge-offs. This may materially and adversely affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial condition. The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. The Chilean economy has grown above the global average and this is reflected in our loan growth. From December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2012, our aggregate loan portfolio, excluding interbank loans, grew by 54.7% in nominal terms to Ch$18,876,079 million (U.S.$39.4 billion), while our consumer loan portfolio grew 51.5% in nominal terms to Ch$3,115,477 million (U.S.$6.5 billion). From December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012, our aggregate loan portfolio grew 8.8% to Ch$18,966,652 million (U.S.$39.6 billion), while our consumer loan portfolio grew 5.8%. The further expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the consumer, small- and mid-sized companies and real estate segments) can be expected to expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of provisions for loan losses. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate and economic turmoil may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at similar rates to the historical growth rate described above. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. An economic turmoil could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. We are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other market risks, which may materially and adversely affect us. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in our net interest income or in the market value of our assets and liabilities due to volatility of interest rate, exchange rate or equity price. Changes in interest rates affect the following areas, among others, of our business: — net interest income; — the volume of loans originated; — the market value of our securities holdings; and — gains from sales of loans and securities. 16 Table of Contents Variations in short-term interest rates could affect our net interest income, which comprises the majority of our revenue. When interest rates rise, we may be required to pay higher interest on our floating-rate borrowings while interest earned on our fixed-rate assets does not rise as quickly, which could cause profits to grow at a reduced rate or decline in some parts of our portfolio. Interest rate variations could adversely affect us, including our net interest income, reducing its growth rate or even resulting in losses. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including increased regulation of the financial sector, the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of loans we originate. Sustained high interest rates have historically discouraged customers from borrowing and have resulted in increased delinquencies in outstanding loans and deterioration in the quality of assets. Increases in interest rates may also reduce the propensity of our customers to prepay or refinance fixed-rate loans. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our financial assets. If interest rates decrease, although this is likely to decrease our funding costs, it is likely to adversely impact the income we receive arising from our investments in securities as well as loans with similar maturities. In addition, we may also experience increased delinquencies in a low interest rate environment when such an environment is accompanied by high unemployment and recessionary conditions. The market value of a security with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when the prevailing interest rates rise, which may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we may incur costs (which, in turn, will impact our results) as we implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The market value of an obligation with a floating interest rate can be adversely affected when interest rates increase, due to a lag in the implementation of repricing terms or an inability to refinance at lower rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce gains or require us to record losses on sales of our loans or securities. Therefore, while the Bank seeks not to maintain a significant mismatch in foreign currency, from time to time, we may have a mismatch. “See Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks— E. Market Risks—Foreign exchange fluctuations.” We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate risk as a result of mismatches between assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between currencies may negatively affect our earnings and value of our assets and securities. We are also exposed to equity price risk in connection with our trading investments in equity securities as part of our normal course of business as a commercial bank. The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. The volatility of world equity markets due to the continued economic uncertainty and sovereign debt crisis has had a particularly strong impact on the financial sector. Continued volatility may affect the value of our investments in entities in this sector and, depending on their fair value and future recovery expectations, could become a permanent impairment which would be subject to write-offs against our results. To the extent any of these risks materialize, our net interest income or the market value of our assets and liabilities could be adversely affected. Failure to successfully implement and continue to improve our risk management policies, procedures and methods, including our credit risk management system, could materially and adversely affect us, and we may be exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. The management of risk is an integral part of our activities. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, such techniques and strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. As a commercial bank, one of the main types of risks inherent in our business is credit risk. For example, an important feature of our credit risk management system is to employ an internal credit rating system to assess the particular risk profile of a customer. As this process involves detailed analyses of the customer or credit risk, taking into account both quantitative and qualitative factors, it is subject to human error. In exercising their judgment, our employees may not always be able to assign an accurate credit rating to a customer or credit risk, which may result in our exposure to higher credit risks than indicated by our risk rating system. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we have been trying to refine our credit policies and guidelines to address potential risks associated with particular industries or types of customers. However, we may not be able to timely detect these risks before they occur, or due to limited tools available to us, our employees may not be able to effectively implement them, which may increase our credit risk. Failure to effectively implement, consistently follow or continuously refine our credit risk management system may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and a higher risk exposure for us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Some of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These qualitative tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in its statistical models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, Dicom en Capital, a Chilean nationwide credit bureau, and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of credit risk associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems will collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we will have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. Liquidity and funding risks are inherent in our business and could have a material adverse effect on us. Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have available sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost. This risk is inherent in any retail and commercial banking business and can be heightened by a number of enterprise-specific factors, including over-reliance on a particular source of funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation. While we implement liquidity management processes to seek to mitigate and control these risks, unforeseen systemic market factors in particular make it difficult to eliminate completely these risks. Adverse and continued constraints in the supply of liquidity, including inter-bank lending, has affected and may materially and adversely affect the cost of funding our business, and extreme liquidity constraints may affect our current operations as well as limit growth possibilities. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us. Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can significantly increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven, and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. If wholesale markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits, with a view to attracting more customers, and/or to sell assets, potentially at depressed prices. The persistence or worsening of these adverse market conditions or an increase in base interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access liquidity and cost of funding (whether directly or indirectly). 18 Table of Contents We rely, and will continue to rely, primarily on commercial deposits to fund lending activities. The ongoing availability of this type of funding is sensitive to a variety of factors outside our control, such as general economic conditions and the confidence of commercial depositors in the economy, in general, and the financial services industry in particular, and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees, as well as competition between banks for deposits. Any of these factors could significantly increase the amount of commercial deposit withdrawals in a short period of time, thereby reducing our ability to access commercial deposit funding on appropriate terms, or at all, in the future. If these circumstances were to arise, this could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. We anticipate that our customers will continue, in the near future, to make short-term deposits (particularly demand deposits and short-term time deposits), and we intend to maintain our emphasis on the use of banking deposits as a source of funds. As of December 31, 2012, 98.7% of our customer deposits had remaining maturities of one year or less, or were payable on demand. A significant portion of our assets have longer maturities, resulting in a mismatch between the maturities of liabilities and the maturities of assets. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 36.8% and 36.2% of our total liabilities and equity as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Chilean time deposit market is concentrated given the importance in size of the pension fund system, in which every Chilean in the workforce must contribute monthly and a portion of these funds is invested in bank deposits. These deposits, which are managed by the private pension funds, we consider to be structurally more stable than other institutional sources given that they come from mandatory savings of the Chilean public. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank’s top 20 time deposits represented 36.5% of total time deposits, or 13.4% of total liabilities and equity, and totaled U.S.$6,955 million. No assurance can be given that future economic stability in the Chilean market will not negatively affect our ability to continue funding our business or to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. The short-term nature of this funding source could cause liquidity problems for us in the future if deposits are not made in the volumes we expect or are not renewed. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, we may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements that could limit our operations, and changes to these requirements may further limit and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. As we are the result of the merger between two predecessors, we are currently required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 11%. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 13.72%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: • the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business or regulatory changes; • the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; • losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; • declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio; • changes in accounting rules; • changes in provisioning guidelines that are charged directly against our equity or net income; and • changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. Starting in 2013 or 2014, Chilean banks will most likely be required to adopt the guidelines set forth under the Basel II and III Capital Accord with adjustments incorporated by the SBIF once these changes are approved by the Chilean Congress. This should result in a different level of minimum capital required to be maintained by us. According 19 Table of Contents to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published by the SBIF for informational purposes only, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk set forth under Basel II, was 12.51% as of November 30, 2012, the latest figure available. No assurance can be given that the adoption of the Basel II capital requirements will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. We may also be required to raise additional capital in the future in order to maintain our capital adequacy ratios above the minimum required levels. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited by numerous factors, including: our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; any necessary government regulatory approvals; our credit ratings; general market conditions for capital raising activities by commercial banks and other financial institutions; and domestic and international economic, political and other conditions. If we require additional capital in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, the SBIF may increase the minimum capital adequacy requirements applicable to us. Accordingly, although we currently meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements, we may face difficulties in meeting these requirements in the future. If we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements, we may be required to take corrective actions. These measures could materially and adversely affect our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner, the growth of our loan portfolio and other risk-weighted assets may be restricted, and we may face significant challenges in implementing our business strategy. As a result, our prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to regulatory risk, or the risk of not being able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines. As a financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation, inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities, which materially affect our businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in regulations may also cause us to face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and provide certain products and services. As some of the banking laws and regulations have been recently adopted, the manner in which those laws and related regulations are applied to the operations of financial institutions is still evolving. Moreover, to the extent these recently adopted regulations are implemented inconsistently in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, it may face higher compliance costs. No assurance can be given generally that laws or regulations will be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Modifications to reserve requirements may affect our business. Deposits are subject to a reserve requirement of 9.0% for demand deposits and 3.6% for time deposits (with terms of less than one year). The Central Bank has statutory authority to require banks to maintain reserves of up to an average of 40.0% for demand deposits and up to 20.0% for time deposits (irrespective, in each case, of the currency in which these deposits are denominated) to implement monetary policy. In addition, to the extent that the aggregate amount of the following types of liabilities exceeds 2.5 times the amount of a bank’s regulatory capital, a bank must maintain a 100% “technical reserve” against them: demand deposits, deposits in checking accounts, obligations payable on sight incurred in the ordinary course of business and, in general, all deposits unconditionally payable immediately. If the Central Bank were to increase reserve requirements, this could lead to lower loan growth and have a negative effect on our business. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose a series of restrictions on how Chilean pension fund management companies (Administradora de Fondos de Pensión, or “AFPs”) may allocate their assets. In the particular case of financial issuers, there are three restrictions, each involving different assets and different limits determined by the amount of assets in each fund and the market and book value of the issuer’s equity. As a consequence, limits vary within funds of AFPs and 20 Table of Contents issuers. As of November 30, 2012, the latest information available, the AFP system can invest another 7.65% of its assets under management in Santander-Chile’s bonds, deposits and mortgage finance bonds, and 0.57% in Santander-Chile’s shares. The total amount that AFPs could additionally invest in Santander is approximately U.S.$13.0 billion. If the exposure of any AFP to Santander-Chile exceeds the regulatory limits, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. On June 5, 2007, approved legislation in Chile (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II, also known as “MK2”) relaxed the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2011, the limit on making investments abroad was increased up to 100%, depending on the fund. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of November 30, 2012, 10.4% of our liabilities were from AFPs. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, could cause material misstatement of the results of our operations and financial position. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The accounting policies deemed critical to our results and financial position, based upon materiality and significant judgments and estimates, include impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, valuation of financial instruments, impairment of available-for-sale financial assets, deferred tax assets and provision for liabilities. The valuation of financial instruments measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where models are used which include unobservable inputs. Given the uncertainty and subjectivity associated with valuing such instruments it is possible that the results of our operations and financial position could be materially misstated if the estimates and assumptions used prove to be inaccurate. If the judgment, estimates and assumptions we use in preparing our consolidated financial statements are subsequently found to be incorrect, there could be a material effect on our results of operations and a corresponding effect on our funding requirements and capital ratios. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We engage in transactions with related parties that others may not consider to be on an arm’s-length basis. Chilean law applicable to public companies and financial groups and institutions, as well as our bylaws, provide for several procedures designed to ensure that the transactions entered into with or among our financial subsidiaries do not deviate from prevailing market conditions for those types of transactions, including the requirement that our board of directors approve such transactions. We are likely to continue to engage in transactions with related parties (including our controlling shareholder) on an arm’s length basis. Conflicts of interest between us and related parties may arise. These conflicts are not required to be and may not be resolved in our favor. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” 21 Table of Contents Operational risks, including risks relating to data collection, processing and storage systems are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately, and on our ability to rely on our digital technologies, computer and email services, software and networks, as well as on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The proper functioning of financial control, accounting or other data collection and processing systems is critical to our businesses and to our ability to compete effectively. Losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. Although we work with our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and prevent against cyber attacks, we routinely exchange personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means, and we may be the target of attempted cyber attacks. If we cannot maintain an effective data collection, management and processing system, we may be materially and adversely affected. We take protective measures and continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, but our systems, software and networks nevertheless may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm There can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future, including relating to cyber attacks or other such security breaches. Further, as cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may incur significant costs in its attempt to modify or enhance our protective measures or investigate or remediate any vulnerabilities. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of ‘rogue traders’ or other employees. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must continually make significant investments and improvements in our information technology infrastructure in order to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain the level of capital expenditures necessary to support the improvement or upgrading of our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on third parties for important products and services. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as loan and deposit servicing systems, internet connections and network access. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delays and expense. 22 Table of Contents Damage to our reputation could cause harm to our business prospects. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation may arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Furthermore, negative publicity regarding us, whether true or not, may result in harm to our business prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of, or individuals in, the industry may also affect our reputation. For example, the role played by financial services firms in the financial crisis and the seeming shift toward increasing regulatory supervision and enforcement has caused public perception of us and others in the financial services industry to decline. Any failure to establish or preserve a favorable reputation among our customers and in the market in general could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. Our continued success depends in part on the continued service of key members of our management team. The ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified professionals is a key element of our strategy. The successful implementation of our growth strategy depends on the availability of skilled management, both at our head office and at each of our business units. If we or one of our business units or other functions fails to staff its operations appropriately or loses one or more of its key senior executives and fails to replace them in a satisfactory and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations, including control and operational risks, may be adversely affected. In addition, the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. If we fail or are unable to attract and appropriately train, motivate and retain qualified professionals, our business may also be adversely affected. We may not be able to detect money laundering and other illegal or improper activities fully or on a timely basis, which could expose us to additional liability and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to comply with applicable anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to adopt and enforce “know-your-customer” policies and procedures and to report suspicious and large transactions to the applicable regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations have become increasingly complex and detailed, require improved systems and sophisticated monitoring and compliance personnel and have become the subject of enhanced government supervision. While we have adopted policies and procedures aimed at detecting and preventing the use of our banking network for money laundering and related activities, such policies and procedures have in some cases only been recently adopted and may not completely eliminate instances where we may be used by other parties to engage in money laundering and other illegal or improper activities. To the extent we fail to fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, the relevant government agencies to which we report have the power and authority to impose fines and other penalties on us, including the revocation of licenses. In addition, our business and reputation could suffer if customers use our banking network for money laundering or illegal or improper purposes. In addition, while we review our relevant counterparties’ internal policies and procedures with respect to such matters, we, to a large degree, rely upon our relevant counterparties to maintain and properly apply their own appropriate anti-money laundering procedures. Such measures, procedures and compliance may not be completely effective in preventing third parties from using our (and our relevant counterparties) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) without our (and our relevant counterparties’) knowledge. If we are associated with, or even accused of being associated with, or become a party to, money laundering, then our reputation could suffer and/or we could become subject to fines, sanctions and/or legal enforcement (including being added to any “black lists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings. We face various issues that may give rise to risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings, including tax litigation. These issues, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, and legal and regulatory requirements, could increase the amount of damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. The current regulatory environment, which suggests an increased supervisory focus on enforcement, combined with uncertainty about the evolution of the regulatory regime, may lead to material operational and compliance costs. We are from time to time subject to certain claims and parties to certain legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of our business, including in connection with our lending activities, relationships with our employees and other commercial or tax matters. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages, or where the cases present novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in the early stages of discovery, we cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of these pending matters will be or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related to each pending matter may be. We believe that we have made adequate reserves related to the costs anticipated to be incurred in connection with these various claims and legal proceedings. However, the amount of these provisions is substantially less than the total amount of the claims asserted against us and in light of the uncertainties involved in such claims and proceedings, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves currently accrued by us. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending upon, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and our level of income for that period. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with derivative transactions. We enter into derivative transactions primarily for hedging purposes and, on a limited basis, on behalf of customers. These transactions are subject to market and operational risks, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of a counterparty to perform its obligations to us). Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to monitor and analyze these transactions depends on our information technology systems. These factors may further increase risks associated with derivative transactions and, if they are not adequately controlled, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to counterparty risk in our banking business. We are exposed to counterparty risks in addition to credit risks associated with lending activities. Counterparty risk may arise from, for example, investing in securities of third parties, entering into derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us or executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades from proprietary trading activities that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, hedge funds and other institutional clients. Defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry generally, could have a material adverse effect on us. 24 Table of Contents Our loan portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms. Our loan portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower to pay a loan prior to maturity and at a time that is inconsistent with the financing of such loan by us. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, with the effect of reducing weighted average lives of interest earning assets and adversely affecting results. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our credit card and residential mortgage portfolios, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios, which may result in a mismatch in funding or in reinvestment at lower yields. Prepayment risk is inherent to our commercial activity and an increase in prepayments could have a material adverse effect on us. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms with institutional investors. Large-denominations of funding from time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. As of December 31, 2012 total time deposits from institutional investors plus funds obtained from our U.S. Commercial Paper program totaled U.S.$7.2 billion or 13.9% of total liabilities and equity. The liquidity crisis triggered by the U.S. subprime market impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S., future market instability in the U.S. or the global financial markets may negatively affect our ability to continue funding our business or maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. If we are unable to manage the growth of our operations, this could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We allocate management and planning resources to develop strategic plans for organic growth, and to identify possible acquisitions and disposals and areas for restructuring our businesses. We cannot provide assurance that we will, in all cases, be able to manage our growth effectively or deliver our strategic growth objectives. Challenges that may result from the strategic growth decisions include our ability to: • manage efficiently the operations and employees of expanding businesses; • maintain or grow our existing customer base; • assess the value, strengths and weaknesses of investment or acquisition candidates; • finance strategic investments or acquisitions; • fully integrate strategic investments, or newly-established entities or acquisitions in line with our strategy; • align our current information technology systems adequately with those of an enlarged group; • apply our risk management policy effectively to an enlarged group; and • manage a growing number of entities without over-committing management or losing key personnel. Any failure to manage growth effectively, including relating to any or all of the above challenges associated with our growth plans, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Chile Future natural disasters may negatively affect our results of operations. Chile lies on the Nazca tectonic plate, making it one of the world’s most seismically active regions. As a result, natural disasters, especially earthquakes, such as the February 2010 earthquake, may have an adverse impact on our results of operation. Changes in taxes, including the corporate tax rate, in Chile may have an adverse effect on us and our corporate clients. The Chilean Government regularly enacts reforms to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we and our customers are subject. For example, in February 2010, the Chilean government approved legislation that increased the corporate income tax rate in order to pay for part of the reconstruction following the February 2010 earthquake and tsunami. The new legislation increased the corporate tax rate from 17% to 20% in 2011. The rate was decreased to 18.5% in 2012 and was scheduled to decrease further to 17% in 2013. However, Congress passed a new tax reform in 2012, raising again the corporate tax rate to 20%. We expect that this legislation will have an adverse effect on us and our corporate clients in 2013, and we expect to pay an effective tax rate of 18% going forward. We cannot predict if tax reforms will be implemented in the future. The effects of these changes, if enacted, and any other changes that could result from the enactment of additional tax reforms, cannot be quantified. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile. A substantial amount of our loans is to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, and our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. In line with the global economic climate, Chile’s economy contracted 2.3% in 2009 for the first time since 1999. However, despite the February 2010 earthquake, the Chilean economy has since recovered significantly and GDP increased 5.4% in 2010, 6.2% in 2011 and 5.5% in 2012. However, there can be no assurance that the Chilean economy will continue to grow in the future or that future developments will not negatively affect Chile’s overall levels of economic activity. Developments in other countries may affect us, including the prices for our securities. The prices of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, are influenced to varying degrees by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States, Europe (including Spain, where Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, is based), Brazil, Argentina and other nations. Even though the world economy and the financial and capital markets had been recovering from the 2008 crisis throughout 2010 and early 2011, the conditions of the global markets again deteriorated in 2011 and continued through 2012. European countries encountered serious fiscal problems, including high debt levels that impaired growth and increased the risk of sovereign default. Also in 2011, the United States faced fiscal difficulties, which culminated in the downgrade of the U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating by S&P. Ongoing political debates in 2012 with respect to how the United States government would address the so-called “fiscal cliff” contributed to economic uncertainty. In 2012, the world economy continued to grow at a slow pace. As the year progressed, spillovers from the crisis in Europe weighed negatively on activity and confidence and the global recovery slowed. Although economic conditions in Europe and the United States may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Chilean issuers. In particular, investor perceptions of the risks associated with our securities may be affected by perception of risk conditions in Spain. 26 Table of Contents If these nations’ economic conditions deteriorate, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years, with possible adverse impact on our borrowers and counterparties. If this were to occur, we would potentially need to increase our allowances for loan losses, thus affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 2.5% of our assets were held abroad. There can be no assurance that the ongoing effects of the global financial crisis will not negatively impact growth, consumption, unemployment, investment and the price of exports in Chile. Crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Chile is also involved in an international litigation with Peru regarding maritime borders and has had other conflicts with neighboring countries in the past. We cannot assure you that crises and political uncertainty in other Latin American countries will not have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation may affect our results of operations. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extended periods of deflation could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, Chile experienced deflation of 1.4% as the global economy contracted. In 2012, CPI inflation was 1.49%, compared to 4.44% in 2011. Our assets and liabilities are denominated in Chilean pesos, UF and foreign currencies. The UF is revalued in monthly cycles. On each day in the period beginning on the tenth day of any given month through the ninth day of the succeeding month, the nominal peso value of the UF is indexed up (or down in the event of deflation) in order to reflect a proportionate amount of the change in the Chilean Consumer Price Index during the prior calendar month. For more information regarding the UF, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—C. Operating Results—Impact of Inflation.” Although we benefit from inflation in Chile due to the current structure of our assets and liabilities (i.e., a significant portion of our loans are indexed to the inflation rate, but there are no corresponding features in deposits, or other funding sources that would increase the size of our funding base), there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and result of operations in the future will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, including from extended periods of inflation that adversely affect economic growth or periods of deflation. Any change in the methodology of how the CPI index is calculated could also affect the value and evolution of the UF, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. Any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of our securities. The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and appreciations in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate exposure. In order to avoid material exchange rate exposure, we enter into forward exchange transactions. The following table shows the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar as reported by the Central Bank at year end for the last five years and the devaluation or appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar in each of those years. Year Exchange rate at year end (Ch$) Devaluation (Appreciation) (%) 2008 629.11 26.9 2009 506.43 (19.5 ) 2010 468.37 (7.5 ) 2011 521.46 11.3 2012 478.60 (8.2 ) 2013 (until April 26, 2013) 472.73 (1.2 ) Source: Central Bank. 27 Table of Contents We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate exposure. Regulations that limit such exposures may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate risk will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate exposures, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Banking regulations and other regulatory factors may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the banking sector and financial institutions are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets were approved (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II, also known as MK2). These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10% of our regulatory capital (and up to 30% of our regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10% is secured by collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5% and 25%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate segment increases. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In 2011, a bill was introduced in Congress to modify the way in which the maximum interest rate is calculated in Chile. In 2012, the Senate’s Finance Committee came to an agreement with the Executive branch on this proposed legislation, which is now being discussed in the Lower House of Congress. We expect this legislation to become law sometime in 2013. This new legislation is aimed at loans of less than UF 200 (U.S.$9,603) and with a term of more than 90 days, and thus includes consumer loans in installments, lines of credit and credit card lines. Currently, the maximum interest rate for loans of less than UF 200 (U.S.$9,603) and with a term of more than 90 days is calculated as the average rate of all transactions undertaken within the banking industry over the previous month of loans of less than UF 200 (U.S.$9,603) and with a term of more than 90 days, multiplied by a factor of 1.5. The average and maximum rates are published daily by the SBIF. As of December 31, 2012, the average annual interest rate for this type of loan reached 38.08%, and the maximum annual interest rate reached 57.12%. 28 Table of Contents The consensus reached in the Senate’s Finance Committee proposes that for loans of less than UF 200 (U.S.$9,603) and a term of more than 90 days, the maximum rate be calculated separately for loans between UF 0 and UF 50 (U.S.$0 to U.S.$2,400) and UF 50 to UF 200 (U.S.$2,400 to U.S.$9,603). For loans between UF 0 and UF50, the maximum rate will be equal to the average rate of loans between UF200 and UF5,000 (U.S.$2,400 to U.S.$240,085) plus 21%. As of September 30, 2012, the average rate of loans between UF 200 and UF 5,000 was 17.34%, and thus the new maximum rate would have been 38.34% compared to 56.76%. This reduction will be implemented gradually. When this law is enacted, the maximum rate for loans between UF 0 to UF 50 will automatically fall 6% to 50.76%, based on the September 30, 2012 maximum rate data. From then on and every 12 weeks, it will be reduced a further 2%, unless the flow of new loans in the industry decreased by 10%-20%, in which case the reduction will be partially or completely suspended until the next period. We estimate that it will take 16 to 23 months for the maximum rate to reach the 38% level of maximum rate the authorities are seeking for loans of this size For loans between UF 50 and UF 200 (U.S.$2,400 to U.S.$9,603,) the maximum rate will be equal to the average rate of loans between UF 200 and UF 5,000 (U.S.$2,400 to U.S.$240,085) plus 14%. As of December 31, 2012 the average rate of loans between UF 200 to UF 5,000 was 17.74%, and thus the new maximum rate would be 31.74% compared to 56.76%. This reduction will be implemented gradually. When this law is enacted, the maximum rate for loans between UF 50 and UF 200 will automatically fall 8% to 48.76%, based on December 31, 2012 maximum rate data. From then on and every 12 weeks, it will be reduced a further 2%, unless the flow of new loans in the industry decreases by 10%-20%, in which case the reduction will be partially or completely suspended until the next period. We estimate that it will take 16 to 23 months for the maximum rate to reach the 31% level authorities are seeking for loans of this size. If this bill in its current form is passed in Congress, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We estimate that in 2013, this bill could affect between U.S.$50 and U.S.$100 million of our net interest income. This estimate is only preliminary, as it is difficult to estimate the speed of implementation of the reduction and the effect on loan volumes. In March 2012, a bill aimed at giving additional enforcement powers to the SERNAC (Chile’s Consumer Protection Agency) regarding financial services became effective and created the SERNAC Financiero, a specific consumer protection agency for the financial industry. The SERNAC Financiero has powers to supervise and regulate Bank products and services. The creation of the SERNAC Financiero has also resulted in additional scrutiny regarding prices and contracts for financial products and services, making it more difficult to raise prices and increasing competition among bank and non-bank competitors. In July 2012, new regulations regarding the selling of mandatory insurance for loans were introduced that will increase competition and that could lower our fees from collecting these premiums. This could have a negative impact on fees in an amount we have initially estimated to be Ch$16 billion for 2013. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. In line with the future adoption of Basel II regulations in Chile, the SBIF has recently proposed to increase the minimum regulatory capital ratio from 8% to 10%, which would require an amendment to the General Banking Law. Although we currently have a regulatory capital ratio of 13.72% as of December 31, 2012, this change could require us to inject additional capital to our business in the future. According to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published for informational purposes only by the SBIF, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk set forth under Basel II was 12.51% as of November 30, 2012, the latest information available. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. 29 Table of Contents These new reforms could result in increased competition in the industry and thus may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of labor relations in Chile could impact our business. As of December 31, 2012, on a consolidated basis, we had 11,713 employees, of which 66.8% were unionized. In May 2010, a new collective bargaining agreement was signed, which became effective on January 1, 2011 and that will expire on December 31, 2014. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally had good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future, a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our corporate disclosure may differ from disclosure regularly published by issuers of securities in other countries, including the United States. Issuers of securities in Chile are required to make public disclosures that are different from, and that may be reported under presentations that are not consistent with, disclosures required in the United States and other countries. In particular, as a Chilean regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the SBIF on a monthly basis unaudited consolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean Bank GAAP and the rules of the SBIF. This disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the same disclosure requirements in the United States as a domestic U.S. registrant under the Exchange Act, including the requirements to prepare and issue quarterly reports, or the proxy rules applicable to domestic U.S. registrants under Section 14 of the Exchange Act or the insider reporting and short-swing profit rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company and may be reported in a manner that you are not familiar with. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations, which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors, except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information relating to equity investments and conduct such operations within Chile’s Formal Exchange Market. The ADSs are subject to a contract, dated May 17, 1994, among the Depositary, us and the Central Bank (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that remains in full force and effect. The ADSs continue to be governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Contract subject to the regulations in existence prior to April 2001. The Foreign Investment Contract grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADSs access to the Formal Exchange Market, which permits the Depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of the ADSs. The Foreign Investment Contract also permits ADS holders to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility, or that have been received free of payment as a consequence of spin offs, mergers, capital increases, wind ups, share dividends or preemptive rights transfers, enabling them to acquire the foreign currency necessary to repatriate earnings from such investments. Pursuant to Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract cannot be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank, and there are judicial precedents (although not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that contracts of this type may not be abrogated by future legislative changes or resolutions of the Advisory Council of the Central Bank. Holders of shares of our common stock, except for shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS facility or received in the manner described above, are not entitled to the benefits of the Foreign Investment Contract, may not have access to the Formal Exchange Market, and may have restrictions on their ability to repatriate investments in shares of our common stock and earnings therefrom. Holders of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the 30 Table of Contents Depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the Depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. ADS holders may not be able to effect service of process on, or enforce judgments or bring original actions against, us, our directors or our executive officers, which may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to seek relief against us. We are a Chilean corporation. None of our directors are residents of the United States and most of our executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for ADS holders to effect service of process outside Chile upon us or our directors and executive officers or to bring an action against us or such persons in the United States or Chile to enforce liabilities based on U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for ADS holders to enforce in the United States or in Chilean courts money judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. If a U.S. court grants a final money judgment in an action based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, enforceability of this money judgment in Chile will be subject to the obtaining of the relevant “exequatur” (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) according to Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder and our ADSs Our controlling shareholder has a great deal of influence over our business and its interests could conflict with yours. Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, controls Santander-Chile through its holdings in Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones S.A. and Santander Chile Holding S.A., which are controlled subsidiaries. Santander Spain has control over 67.18% of our shares and actual participation, excluding non-controlling shareholders that participate in Santander Chile Holding, S.A. of 67.01%. Due to its share ownership, our controlling shareholder has the ability to control us and our subsidiaries, including the ability to: • elect the majority of the directors and exercise control over our company and subsidiaries; • cause the appointment of our principal officers; • declare the payment of any dividends; • agree to sell or otherwise transfer its controlling stake in us; and • determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including amendments of our bylaws, transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and disposals of assets and issuance of additional equity securities, if any. 31 Table of Contents We operate as a stand-alone subsidiary within the Santander Group. Our principal shareholders have no liability for our banking operations, except for the amount of their respective holdings of our capital stock. The interests of Santander Spain may differ from our interests or those of our other shareholders and the concentration of control in Santander Spain will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, we may take action that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. Our ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE. Our common stock is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Chile Electronic Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Exchange, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Stock Exchanges, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. At December 31, 2012, we had 188,446,126,794 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. According to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on one or more Chilean Stock Exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. In addition, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it deems necessary. Although our common stock is traded on the Chilean Stock Exchanges, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to exist. Approximately 33.0% of our outstanding common stock is held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Santander Spain and its affiliates), including our shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Companies Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible in the United States unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights in the United States. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available under U.S. securities law, the Depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. 32 Table of Contents As a holder of ADSs you will have different shareholders’ rights than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Chile. Under Chilean corporate law, you may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of our common shares than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Chile. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Although Chilean corporate law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the form of these regulations and the manner of their enforcement may differ from that in the U.S. securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions. In addition, in Chile, self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be regulated differently, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the shares underlying ADSs. Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs will not be our direct shareholders and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the laws of Chile. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common stock represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. Holders of our common stock will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the Depositary following our notice to the Depositary requesting the Depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the Depositary on a timely basis on how they wish to vote. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our common stock. If the Depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the Depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the Depositary to vote the common stock underlying their ADSs. In addition, the Depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the common stocks underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. 