ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors describe various risks that may affect our business, financial condition and operations. Increases in prices and reduced availability of key raw materials such as steel, aluminum and zinc will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. Hot rolled steel coil and other carbon steel products have historically constituted approximately one-third of the cost of manufacturing our products. We also use large quantities of aluminum for lighting structures and zinc for the galvanization of most of our steel products. The markets for the commodities that we use in our manufacturing processes can be volatile. The following factors increase the cost and reduce the availability of steel, aluminum and zinc for us: •increased demand, which occurs when other industries purchase greater quantities of these commodities at times when we require more steel, aluminum and zinc for manufacturing, which can result in higher prices and lengthen the time it takes to receive material from suppliers; •increased freight costs, because our manufacturing sites are usually not located near the major steel, aluminum and zinc manufacturers; •lower production levels of these commodities, due to reduced production capacities or shortages of materials needed to produce these commodities (such as coke and scrap steel for the production of steel) which could result in reduced supplies of these commodities, higher costs for us and increased lead times to acquire material; •lower inventory levels at suppliers when major steel users, such as the automobile manufacturers, increase their orders, which can reduce available inventory for us to meet our requirements; •increased cost of major inputs, such as scrap steel, coke, iron ore and energy; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can impact the relative cost of these commodities, which may affect the cost effectiveness of imported materials and limit our options in acquiring these commodities; and •international trade disputes, import duties and quotas, since we import some steel for our domestic and foreign manufacturing facilities. Increases in the selling prices of our products may not fully recover additional steel, aluminum and zinc costs and generally lag increases in our costs of these commodities. Consequently, an increase in steel, aluminum and zinc prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. In 2006, the per-pound cost of zinc increased to over $2.00, as compared with $0.35 to $0.40 per pound in 2004 and most of 2005. As most of our products manufactured from steel are galvanized with a hot-dipped zinc coating, rapid increases in our cost of zinc will result in an increase in our cost of goods sold. To the extent that sales prices increases are not adequate to recover our increased cost of zinc, we will likely realize lower operating income. Rising steel prices in 2004 and 2006 put pressure on gross profit margins, especially in our Engineered Support Structures and Utility Support Structures segments. In both of these segments, the elapsed time between the quotation of a sales order and the manufacturing of the product ordered can be several months. As some of these sales are fixed price contracts, rapid increases in steel costs likely will result in lower operating income in these businesses. The 2004 fiscal year was characterized by an unprecedented and rapid increase in steel prices, which resulted from the imposition of surcharges by steel suppliers and, in some cases (in a departure from normal industry practices), modification of their contracts and commitments. We believe this situation was caused by significant increases in steel production and consumption in China, leading to shortages in key steel-making materials (such as coke, iron ore and scrap steel), which impacted the production capability of other steel producers. Under 13 such circumstances, steel supplies may become tighter and impact our ability to acquire steel and meet customer requirements on a timely basis. The speed with which steel suppliers imposed surcharges and increased prices in 2004 prevented us from fully recovering these price increases and reduced our operating margins, particularly in our lighting and traffic and utility businesses. In addition, our Coatings segment was negatively impacted, as some of our galvanizing customers had difficulty procuring steel. Increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. We use energy to manufacture and transport our products. Our costs of transportation and heating will increase if energy costs rise, which occurred in 2005 and 2007 due to additional energy usage caused by severe winter weather conditions and higher oil, gasoline and natural gas prices. Our galvanizing operations are susceptible to fluctuations in natural gas prices because our processing tanks are heated with natural gas. During periods of higher energy costs, we may not be able to recover our increased operating costs through sales price increases without reducing demand for our products. While we may hedge a portion of our exposure to higher prices via energy futures contracts, increases in energy prices will increase our operating costs and likely reduce our profitability. The ultimate consumers of our products operate in cyclical industries that have been subject to significant downturns which have adversely impacted our sales in the past and may again in the future. Our sales are sensitive to the market conditions present in the industries in which the ultimate consumers of our products operate, which in some cases have been highly cyclical and subject to substantial downturns. For example, a significant portion of our sales of support structures is to the electric utility industry. Our sales to the U.S. electric utility industry were nearly $330 million in 2007. Purchases of our products are deferrable to the extent that utilities may reduce capital expenditures as a result of unfavorable regulatory environments, a slow U.S. economy or financing constraints. In the event of weakness in the demand for utility structures due to reduced or delayed spending for electrical generation and transmission projects, our sales and operating income likely will decrease. The end users of our mechanized irrigation equipment are farmers and, as a result, sales of those products are affected by economic changes within the agriculture industry, particularly the level of farm income. Lower levels of farm income generally result in reduced demand for our mechanized irrigation and tubing products. Farm income decreases when commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields, government subsidies and export levels decrease. In addition, weather conditions, such as extreme drought may result in reduced availability of water for irrigation, and can affect farmers' buying decisions. Farm income can also decrease as farmers' operating costs increase. In 2005, rapid increases in natural gas prices resulted in higher costs of energy and nitrogen-based fertilizer (which uses natural gas as a major ingredient). Furthermore, uncertainty as to future government agricultural policies may cause indecision on the part of farmers. The status and trend of government farm supports, financing aids and policies regarding the ability to use water for agricultural irrigation can affect the demand for our irrigation equipment. In recent years, severe drought in Brazil resulted in water shortages for electrical generation and water available for irrigation purposes was restricted by the government. In the United States, certain parts of the country are considering policies that would restrict usage of water for irrigation. All of these factors may cause farmers to delay capital expenditures for farm equipment. Consequently, downturns in the agricultural industry, such as occurred in 2005, will likely result in a slower, and possibly a negative, rate of growth in irrigation equipment and tubing sales. We have also experienced cyclical demand for those of our products that are targeted to the wireless communications industry, which has weakened since 2000. Our sales to the wireless communications industry were approximately $110 million in 2007. Sales of wireless structures to wireless carriers and build-to-suit companies that serve the wireless communications industry have historically been cyclical. These customers may elect to curtail spending on new structures to focus on 14 cash flow and capital management. Weak market conditions have led to competitive pricing in recent years, putting pressure on our profit margins on sales to this industry. As a result of this underlying cyclicality, we have experienced, and in the future we may experience, significant fluctuations in our sales and operating income with respect to a substantial portion of our total product offering, and such fluctuations could be material and adverse to our overall financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Demand for our engineered support structures and coating services is highly dependent upon the overall level of infrastructure spending. We manufacture and distribute engineered support structures for lighting and traffic, utility and other specialty applications. Our Coatings segments serve many construction-related industries. Because these products are used primarily in infrastructure construction, sales in these businesses are highly correlated with the level of construction activity, which historically has been cyclical. Construction activity by our private and government customers is impacted by and can decline because of, among other things: •weakness in the general economy, which reduces funds available for construction; •interest rate increases, which increase the cost of construction financing; and •adverse weather conditions which slow construction activity. The recent turmoil in the credit markets in the United States could have some negative effect on our business. In our North American lighting product line, some of our lighting structure sales are for new residential areas. If this credit crisis affects new home construction, we could see some negative impact on our light pole sales to this market. In a broader sense, if the credit crisis contributes to an overall downturn in the U.S. economy, we may experience decreased demand if our customers have difficulty securing credit for their purchases from us. In addition, sales in our Engineered Support Structures segment, particularly our lighting and traffic products, are highly dependent upon federal, state, local and foreign government spending on infrastructure development projects, such as the federal highway program. The level of spending on such projects may decline for a number of reasons beyond our control, including, among other things, budgetary constraints affecting government spending generally or transportation agencies in particular, decreases in tax revenues and changes in the political climate, including legislative delays, with respect to infrastructure appropriations. A substantial reduction in the level of government appropriations for infrastructure projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. We may lose some of our foreign investment or our foreign sales and profits may be reduced because of risks of doing business in foreign markets. We are an international manufacturing company with operations around the world. At December 29, 2007, we operated over 40 manufacturing plants, located on five continents, and sold our products in more than 100 countries. In 2007, approximately 26% of our total sales were either sold in markets or produced by our manufacturing plants outside of North America. We have operations in geographic markets that have recently experienced political instability, such as the Middle East, and economic uncertainty, such as Argentina. We also have a significant manufacturing presence in China. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales into the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our foreign business operations and our foreign sales and profits are subject to the following potential risks: •political and economic instability where we have foreign business operations, resulting in the reduction of the value of, or the loss of, our investment; 15 •recessions in economies of countries in which we have business operations, decreasing our international sales; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing our foreign operations, increasing our foreign operating costs and decreasing profits; •difficulties in enforcing our rights outside the United States for patents on our manufacturing machinery, poles and irrigation designs; •increases in tariffs, export controls, taxes and other trade barriers reducing our international sales and our profit on these sales; and •acts of war or terrorism. As a result, we may lose some of our foreign investment or our foreign sales and profits may be materially reduced because of risks of doing business in foreign markets. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our international sales, which can negatively impact our reported earnings. Our products are sold in many countries around the world. Approximately 26% of our fiscal 2007 sales were generated by export or foreign subsidiaries and are often made in foreign currencies, mainly the Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, euro and South African rand. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had and will continue to have an impact on our reported earnings. If the U.S. dollar weakens or strengthens versus the foreign currencies mentioned above, the result will be an increase or decrease in our reported sales and earnings, respectively. We do not have exchange rate hedges in place to reduce this currency translation risk. Currency fluctuations have affected our financial performance in the past and may affect our financial performance in any given period. We also face risks arising from the imposition of foreign exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. We face strong competition in our markets. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in each of the markets we serve. Our competitors include companies who provide the technologies that we provide as well as companies who provide competing technologies, such as drip irrigation. Our competitors include international, national, and local manufacturers, some of whom may have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and technical resources than we do, or greater penetration in or familiarity with a particular geographic market than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors, particularly with respect to our utility and wireless communication product lines, have sought bankruptcy protection in recent years, and may emerge with reduced debt service obligations, which could allow them to operate at pricing levels that put pressures on our margins. In our Coatings segment, we compete indirectly with international companies for sales. Some of our customers have moved manufacturing operations or product sourcing overseas, which can negatively impact our sales of galvanizing and anodizing services. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, product development and customer service, and we may need to reduce our prices, particularly with respect to customers in industries that 16 are experiencing downturns. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in each of the markets that we serve. We could incur substantial costs as the result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or with the permits required for our operations, could result in fines or civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, and investigation and cleanup costs. Potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with environmental laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations. In addition, from time to time we have been named as a potentially responsible party under Superfund or similar state laws. While we are not aware of any contaminated sites, including third-party sites, at which we may have material obligations, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these sites could result in significant liability. We may not realize the improved operating results that we anticipate from acquisitions we may make in the future, and we may experience difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses or may inherit significant liabilities related to such businesses. We explore opportunities to acquire businesses that we believe are related to our core competencies from time to time, some of which may be material to us. We expect such acquisitions will produce operating results better than those historically experienced or presently expected to be experienced in the future by us in the absence of the acquisition. We cannot provide assurance that this assumption will prove correct with respect to any acquisition. Any future acquisitions may present significant challenges for our management due to the increased time and resources required to properly integrate management, employees, information systems, accounting controls, personnel and administrative functions of the acquired business with those of Valmont and to manage the combined company on a going forward basis. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions or, if such activities are successfully accomplished, such integration may be more costly to accomplish than presently contemplated. We may also have difficulty in successfully integrating the product offerings of Valmont and acquired businesses to improve our collective product offering. Our efforts to integrate acquired businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions. In addition, the process of integrating acquired businesses could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses could adversely impact our business, results of operations and liquidity, and the benefits we anticipate may never materialize. In addition, although we conduct reviews of businesses we acquire, we may be subject to unexpected claims or liabilities, including environmental cleanup costs, as a result of these acquisitions. Such claims or liabilities could be costly to defend or resolve and be material in amount, and thus could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and liquidity. 17 We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, which could impair our ability to operate our business and react to changes in our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 29, 2007, we had approximately $238 million of total indebtedness outstanding and our ratio of total interest-bearing debt to shareholders' equity was 47%. We had $128 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility at December 29, 2007. We may, as we have from time to time, increase our indebtedness to make business acquisitions (such as the Newmark acquisition in 2004) and major capital expenditures. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements could be affected and any failure to comply with the requirements, including significant financial and other restrictive covenants, of any of our debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to make interest and principal payments and will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, or general corporate and other purposes, including possible future acquisitions that we believe would be beneficial to our business; •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; •we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; and •our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business prospects. The restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business, or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our new senior credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our other debt agreements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are favorable to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 18 