Risk Factors Prior to making an investment decision, prospective investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report, including the following risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs could decline and all or part of a prospective investor’s investment could be lost. Technical Risks of satellite systems Satellite programs involve inherent technical risks. Given the intense competitiveness of Asian satellite markets, any launch or in-orbit failure affecting any of the Company’s present or future satellites would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. -11- Table of Contents Risk of Satellite Defects or Failure Satellite defects as well as possible damage from electrostatic storms or collisions with space debris or other external causes may result in a partial or total loss of a satellite’s communication capacity. APSTAR IIR and APSTAR V are FS-1300 models, and APSTAR VI is a SB-4100 C1 model, which is a new general satellite platform with heritage from previous SB series satellite model. Although these models were chosen based on a number of factors, including risk management, there can be no assurance that the Company’s satellites will perform as designed and as manufactured. Significant defects in or damage to any of the Company’s satellites would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Limited Life of Satellites All satellites have limited operational lives. A number of factors affect the operational lives of satellites, including construction quality, component durability, fuel usage, the launch vehicle used and the skill with which the satellite is monitored and operated. There can be no assurance as to the actual operational life of APSTAR I, APSTAR IA, APSTAR IIR, APSTAR V or APSTAR VI. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if the operational lives of satellites in the APSTAR System or any other satellites it may operate are significantly shorter than expected. TT&C Systems and Earth Station All satellites in the APSTAR System, except APSTAR V, are controlled with respective TT&C systems, which are operated by the technical staff of the Company. All TT&C systems are installed in the Satellite Control Center of the Company. The reliability and performance of the Satellite Control Center has been good and comparable to that of the industry. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be technical problems, accidents or disasters in the future in respect of the operation of the TT&C systems or the Satellite Control Center. The Company’s results would be adversely affected in the event of the occurrence of any such technical problem, accident or disaster. Risk of Interruption or harmful interference of APSTAR V APSTAR V is operated by Telesat’s Ottawa Satellite Control Centre starting from April 25, 2008 through the satellite antenna facility of the Company. Telesat is an experienced satellite operator particularly in the operation of satellites such as APSTAR V. However, there can be no assurance that the operation of APSTAR V will be free from interruption or harmful interference in the future. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by the occurrence of such defect or problem. Changes in Technology and Industry Technology in the broadcasting and telecommunications industry is in a rapid and continuing state of change, with new technological developments and innovations constantly emerging. If such developments and innovations were to decrease general commercial demand for the use of satellites of the type operated by the Company, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Further, while the Company designs its satellites to incorporate state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that the technology used in the Company’s satellites will continue to be the most advanced throughout the entire operational life of each satellite. Any technological lag which develops could result in lower rental fees after the initial rental term for any given transponder, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory Risks Regulatory Regime for Satellite Operations The business prospects of the Company (including the launch and the timing of the launch of new satellites) could be adversely affected by laws, policies or regulations that modify the present regulatory regime in HKSAR or elsewhere applicable to APT Group or the launch, operation and commercial usage of its satellites. -12- Table of Contents Satellite services are subject to international space law. A country that is a party to the International Outer Space Treaty or other treaties or conventions regulating outer space activities is responsible for fulfilling its own obligations under such treaties or conventions. This often results in the adoption by a member country of domestic laws to regulate the activities of their own citizens or corporations in order to enable the country concerned to comply with its international obligations. APT’s satellite operations are principally regulated by the Outer Space Ordinance 1997 (the “Outer Space Ordinance”). The Outer Space Ordinance prohibits any person from launching or procuring the launch of a satellite, or operating a satellite, without obtaining the appropriate license. The ultimate authority to grant licenses and otherwise to administer the Outer Space Ordinance is vested in the Chief Executive of HKSAR acting in consultation with the Executive Council of Hong Kong (“Chief Executive in Council”). In practice, all relevant matters are dealt with on a regular basis by and through the OFTA. Since July 1, 1997, HKSAR and its government and regulatory bodies have been subject to its Basic Law and the principle of “One country, two systems”. However, the Outer Space Ordinance states that where the Central People’s Government of the PRC issues an instruction to the Chief Executive in relation to any licence to be issued or revoked under the Outer Space Ordinance on the ground that if the instruction were not complied with the national security or the international obligations of the PRC would be significantly affected, the Chief Executive shall comply with such instruction. On November 1, 2003 and April 4, 2005, OFTA granted the Space Station Carrier Licence for the TT&C operations of APSTAR V and APSTAR VI, respectively, to APT. In addition, on April 4, 2005 OFTA also granted to APT the Outer Space Licence in relation to the launch and operation of APSTAR VI. The Company currently has licenses for the operation of APSTAR I, APSTAR IA, APSTAR IIR, APSTAR V and APSTAR VI. Owing to the fact that APSTAR V is under the leasehold arrangement and is operated by Telesat instead of the Company, there is no need for the Company to obtain the Outer Space Licence for APSTAR V. However, there can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations affecting the Company will remain applicable in the future, or whether any such applicable laws and regulations are likely to be amended. Priority for Orbital Slots Satellites are entitled to protection from radio frequency interference by other satellites and earth stations only upon the registration of the location, frequency and use of such satellites with the Radiocommunication Bureau. Registration requires the successful completion of a coordination process with other existing and potential users of locations and frequencies who have commented on the application for registration. The coordination process is carried out in part at the government-to-government level, which is beyond the control of the Company. The coordination process has become increasingly complex and time-consuming in the Asia Pacific region because a large number of operators have registered new systems operating at high power levels with very broad coverage. The coordination process may result in modifications of proposed coverage areas or satellite design to eliminate or minimize interference with other potential users. Under the Radio Regulations, during the coordination process a country may request the Radiocommunication Bureau to assist it in resolving disputes in connection with existing or proposed uses of frequencies and orbital locations. However, should any such disputes remain unresolved, and the coordination process therefore not be successfully completed, there is no formal dispute resolution mechanism. Any country that nonetheless places a satellite or any earth station into operation without coordination and notification may not be entitled to seek the assistance of the Radiocommunication Bureau to resolve complaints relating to interference. APT, through the PRC government, has requested the Radio Regulatory Department of the PRC via OFTA of Hong Kong to file and coordinate applications by APT for orbital slots with the Radiocommunication Bureau and for resolving interference concerns. The Radio Regulatory Department has notified the Radiocommunication Bureau of the proposed use of several orbital slots, namely 76.5 degrees East, 89.5 degrees East, 92.2 degrees East, 96 degrees East, 102.8 degrees East, 131 degrees East, 131.8 degrees East, 134 degrees East, 138 degrees East and 140 degrees East. APT also filed for the orbital slot at 142 degrees East but such filing has also been, for administration purposes, transferred to ChinaSat in 2004 after liaising with OFTA. Pursuant to such transfer, APSTAR I can be positioned at 142 degrees East under the existing licenses from OFTA. Under ITU regulations, no assurance can be given as to whether substantial modifications to satellite coverage or services may be required with respect to 142 degrees East, and no assurance can be given whether the coordination process with the ITU, with respect to the orbital slot at 76.5 degrees East, where APSTAR IIR is currently positioned, or any other orbital slot to be used by the Company’s satellites will be completed or whether the Company will have any priority for any such orbital slot. -13- Table of Contents Possible Disputes Relating to Orbital Slots APSTAR V replaced APSTAR I on August 13, 2004. APSTAR V is utilizing certain designated C-band, extended C-band frequencies and Ku-band frequencies in the orbital slot at 138 degrees East. APSTAR VI replaced APSTAR IA on July 7, 2005. APSTAR VI is utilizing certain designated C-band and extended C-band frequencies in the orbital slot at 134 degrees East. The right to use these frequencies at such orbital slots has been licensed to the Company by the Kingdom of Tonga (“Tonga”), which, through its agent namely Friendly Islands Satellite Communications Limited (“TongaSat”), has responsibility for the ITU coordination process with respect to such orbital slots and the frequencies covered by the Company’s license. APT and TongaSat entered into a license agreement on July 8, 2003, under which APT can utilize certain designated C-band, extended C-band and Ku-band frequencies in the orbital slot at 138 degrees East for APSTAR V. APT and TongaSat also entered into an operator agreement on December 19, 2003 for the utilization of certain Ku-band frequencies in the same orbital slot for APSTAR V, which operator agreement was approved by the corresponding administrations of both HKSAR and Tonga on March 15, 2004. APT and TongaSat also entered into a license agreement on April 15, 2005, under which APT can utilize certain designated C-band, extended C-band and Ku-band frequencies in the orbital slot at 134 degrees East for APSTAR VI. Tonga has confirmed to the Company that it has not granted rights to any third party that would affect the Company’s license or the Company’s entitlement to use the frequencies at such orbital slot covered by the license. Disputes may arise with respect to these and other orbital slots used by or contemplated for the Company’s satellites. Any such disputes or interference may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. APSTAR I has been relocated to 142 degrees East and APSTAR IA is in the process of being relocated to another orbital slot. APT is authorized by customers to locate and operate these two satellites under inclined angle modes. Third parties liabilities insurance policies have been taken out in respect of the relocation of APSTAR IA. No assurance can be given by the Company that these two satellites will not cause any interferences or damages to any third parties leading to damages of any third party, nor the insurance policy will be sufficient for any damage payments. Regulatory Constraints on End-users Many of the Company’s existing and potential customers who may wish to use the APSTAR System to broadcast into or provide telecommunications services for countries in Asia are subject to government licensing. The applicable regulatory schemes in these countries vary considerably. While the Company does not believe these regulatory schemes will prevent it from pursuing its business, there can be no assurance that its customers’ licenses and approvals are or will remain sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities or that these authorities will not discourage or prevent existing or potential customers from utilizing transponders on the APSTAR System. Many of the Company’s customers must also have authorization from the countries in which they are located in order to uplink to and communicate by means of the Company’s satellites. While obtaining such authorizations on behalf of its customers is not the Company’s responsibility, the Company’s success may depend on the ability of its potential customers to obtain required authorizations. The potential risk from regulatory constraints due to latest applications in radiofrequencies such as WiMax or 4th G may have an adverse effect on our Extended C band transponder business. Export Restrictions The United States government has imposed certain restrictions on technology transfers to certain countries including the PRC. Export licenses for the deliveries of TT&C systems and satellites are required to be obtained by the manufacturers of other satellites that the Company may launch in the future in connection with launches in any country subject to restrictions on technology transfers. -14- Table of Contents Under the APT-Loral Term Sheet dated September 23, 2002 and the agreements signed between Loral Orion and APT HK in December 2003, Loral Orion agreed to participate in the development of APSTAR V by investing up to 50% of the capital necessary for the APSTAR V project on a pro rata basis in order to obtain rights to 27 transponders at a value of approximately US$115.0 million. In March 2003, the parties agreed to lower the number of transponders to be purchased by Loral Orion to 25, but Loral Orion’s capital commitment remains unchanged. Because of the failure of Space Systems/Loral Inc., a subsidiary of Loral Space & Communications (“SS/Loral”), to obtain the export license for the transfer of the title of APSTAR V in time for launching, APT entered into a Satellite Procurement Amendment Agreement, a Satellite Transponder Agreement and a Satellite Agreement (collectively the “Definitive Agreements”) with SS/Loral and Loral Orion Inc. (“Loral Orion”) on August 26, 2003 for the purpose of minimizing any further delay in the launch of the satellite. Under the Definitive Agreements, the title of APSTAR V was transferred to Loral Orion upon intentional ignition of APSTAR V and simultaneously therewith APT was granted an irrevocable lease of forty-one and one-half (411/2) transponders for the lease term commencing upon transfer of title from SS/Loral to Loral Orion until the end of operational life of APSTAR V. Under the Satellite Agreement, APT will release the leasehold interest of twelve and one-half (121/2) transponders to Loral Orion in stages over a five years period from the in-service date of APSTAR V subject to payment of installments by Loral Orion to APT. This will result in APT having 29 transponders. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement dated November 16, 2003 entered into between Loral Orion and APT, Loral Orion took up four and one-half (41/2) transponders, leaving eight transponders to be released by APT to Loral Orion at the anniversary of the fourth and fifth year after the commencement of APSTAR V. Under the leasehold arrangement, Loral Orion has committed to continue pursuing the necessary export license for title transfer of APSTAR V. The Definitive Agreements were approved by the United States Bankruptcy Court on October 28, 2003. The Company believes that entering into the Definitive Agreements facilitated the timely replacement of APSTAR I so that satellite transponder services of the APT Group can be enhanced. The Definitive Agreements will not adversely impact the business and future plans of the APT Group because the leasehold interests under the Definitive Agreements will allow APT to carry on its business in a normal commercial practice of leasing its transponders capacities to any third parties. Loral Skynet has exercised the acceleration option and has taken up one standard C band transponder and one extended C-band transponder on September 28, 2006. Owing to the absence of export license for the delivery of the TT&C system of APSTAR V, the satellite is currently controlled by Loral Skynet through the Satellite Control Centre of the APT Group until the export license for the delivery of the TT&C system of APSTAR V is obtained by Loral Skynet. Loral Orion has committed to continue pursuing the necessary export license for title transfer of APSTAR V. However, there can be no assurance that the relevant vendor of any satellite of the Company will be able to obtain all the necessary licenses or that such other licenses will not be revoked by the relevant government or that the relevant government will not impose additional restrictions or trade sanctions against the PRC or other countries that would significantly delay the planned launch of the satellite in question or other satellites that the Company or any of its subsidiary or associated company may launch in the future. Business Risks Insurance The Company has in-orbit insurance coverage in respect of APSTAR V and APSTAR VI until July 6, 2009. The in-orbit insurance for the only transponder in APSTAR IIR was renewed up to April 30, 2006 and no renewal of in-orbit insurance was arranged for APSTAR IIR thereafter. No in-orbit insurance is maintained in respect of APSTAR I and APSTAR IA as their design lives were already expired. On April 30, 2004, OFTA granted the Company a waiver whereby the requirement of third party liability insurance in respect of APSTAR I, IA and IIR, respectively, for in-orbit operation is waived. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be subject to claims for third-party liability in respect of satellites under the APSTAR System. As the title of APSTAR V has transferred to Loral Skynet upon launch, there is no need for the Company to obtain an Outer Space Ordinance Licence for APSTAR V and the Company is not required to secure third-party liability insurance for APSTAR V. No assurance can be given with respect to the change of policy of OFTA. Because of the drifting of APSTAR IA from its original geostationary orbital slots to new orbital slots for the provision of services to customers under inclined modes, APSTAR IA was covered under third-party liability insurance over drifting and operation through November 1, 2007. Similar insurance will be arranged if new developments as to APSTAR IA’s designated orbital slot are agreed and drifting takes place. -15- Table of Contents After the World Trade Center event happened on September 11, 2001, the insurance industry imposed unfavorable terms on satellite insurance with respect to both the launch insurance and in-orbit insurance. Such impositions include a higher premium rate and additional exclusion clauses. The Company’s in-orbit insurance must be renewed annually. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain future insurance on terms satisfactory to the Company, or at all. The failure to secure adequate insurance coverage may result in the Company not being in compliance with its Outer Space Ordinance License, and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition if an event were to occur for which the Company was not adequately insured. Due to Export License restrictions, there is no guarantee that in the event of an anomalous condition, the satellite vendors will provide to the Company, in a timely manner, the necessary and complete information by which the Company can satisfy its disclosure obligation under the insurance policy. The Company’s launch insurance is unlikely to fully reimburse the Company for its expenditures with respect to launching a replacement satellite, with uninsured expenses comprising legal and other professional fees, interest and certain other expenses. It is the Company’s policy to secure in-orbit insurances to cover only the book value, rather than the replacement cost, of a satellite, however, the Company may take into account the obligations under the Bank loan conditions and the general industrial practice on a case by case basis. There is no assurance that the Company will take in-orbit insurance to fully cover the book value of its satellites. Further, the Company’s insurance coverage does not compensate the Company for business interruption and similar losses (including, among other things, loss of market share, loss of revenue and incidental and consequential damages). In addition, the Company’s insurance policies include customary exclusions including, among other things, exclusions from losses resulting from (i) war or similar hostile actions, (ii) anti-satellite, nuclear or laser or directed energy devices, (iii) insurrection and similar acts or governmental action to prevent such acts, (iv) governmental confiscation, (v) nuclear reaction or radiation contamination, (vi) electromagnetic or radio frequency interference, except for damage directly caused by such interference, or (vii) willful or intentional acts of the Company or its contractors except for the acts of the range safety officer acting within the limit of his authority. Competitive Nature of the Industry The international satellite communications industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from numerous international, regional and domestic satellite companies and from other communications companies which offer competing services using satellites or land-based facilities in the Asia Pacific region. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. The Company expects that new satellites will be launched covering all or part of the Asia Pacific region in the future. Assuming announced plans for such launches are successfully implemented, there would be an increase of transponder capacity serving the region and the increased supply of international telecommunications facilities, including those of the Company, would likely exceed the demand for such services. Such overcapacity could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Technological developments, such as the use of digital video compression technology, and the proliferation of fiber optic cables in the form of land cables and submarine cables at comparatively lower cost for point-to-point telecommunication services may also result in reduced demand for transponder capacity as such advancements become commercially viable. The laws of certain countries require domestic television broadcasters and domestic satellite telecommunications operators providing services in their home countries generally to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites to the extent capacity is available. These legal requirements may prevent the Company and other satellite companies from competing in the provision of transponder capacity to these potential customers. There can be no assurance that those countries in the Asia Pacific region, including those countries within the footprints of APSTAR System satellites and in which the Company’s customers currently provide programming or telecommunications services, such as PRC and Indonesia, will not impose similar requirements to use state-owned or locally-owned satellites in the future on domestic broadcasters or operators. The imposition of such requirements could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. -16- Table of Contents Additional Financing Requirements On December 16, 2002, APT entered into a Bank loan which is secured by the assignment of the construction, launching, and related equipment contracts relating to APSTAR V and APSTAR VI and their related insurance claim proceeds, assignment of all present and fixed charges over certain bank accounts which will hold receipts of transponder utilization income and termination payments under construction, launching and related equipment contracts. As of December 31, 2006 and 2007, the aggregate outstanding borrowing amount under the Bank loan was US$120.0 million and US$87.6 million, respectively. The Bank loan contains financial covenants, including maintenance of collateral coverage ratio, minimum net worth and minimum EBITDA. The Bank loan also contains customary limitations, including those on dividends, investments, capital expenditures, changes of controlling shareholders, creating liens and transactions with affiliates. No assurance can be given that APT will be able to meet any financial and operating covenant. These covenants and limitations may limit the Company’s ability to raise additional funds when required and could significantly restrict the Company’s business expansion. Dependence on Key Customers Revenues from the Company’s five largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2006, and 2007 were HK$127.9 million, and HK$148.8 million (US$19.1 million), respectively, which represented 30.0% and 32.9%, respectively, of total revenues. Revenues from the Company’s largest customer represented 8.4% and 8.8%, respectively, of total revenues during such periods. The Company’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of one or more of its key customers. There can be no assurance that the key customers will renew the existing satellite capacity utilization agreements on similar commercial terms, including price levels and for similar capacity. In addition, to the extent the credit quality of key customers deteriorates or these customers seek bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to collect our receivables from these customers, which may adversely affect our operating results. Interference Adjacent satellites may use the same band of frequencies as the Company’s satellites and the transmission made by other satellites or other legal or illegal source of transmission which may interfere with the transmissions of the Company’s satellites. Such interference could lead to the loss of revenues if customers migrate to competitors who operate satellites without such interference. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company can avoid the material interference with other satellites which may result in restriction of frequency bandwidth or loss of revenues. The Company may also be in violation of the Outer Space Ordinance Licence, and the affected parties may submit a complaint in the ITU. Political and Economic Risks Substantially all of the Company’s revenues are derived from its operations conducted in the Asia Pacific region, including the PRC and Hong Kong. As a result, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be influenced by the political situation in the PRC, Hong Kong and elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region and by the general state of the various Asian economies. For the years ended December 31, 2006, and 2007, approximately 48.6% and 37.8%, respectively, of the Company’s revenues were derived from customers based in the PRC, excluding Hong Kong. In addition, due to the geographic coverage of the Company’s satellites, the most significant market for the Company’s customers (whether or not such customers are based in the PRC) has been, and is expected to continue to be, the PRC. The economy of the PRC differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. For over 50 years, the economy of the PRC has been a planned economy subject to five-year state plans adopted by central PRC government authorities and implemented, to a large extent, by provincial and local authorities, which set production and development targets. Although the majority of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the government, in the past several years emphasis has been placed on decentralization and the utilization of market mechanisms in the development of the PRC economy. -17- Table of Contents Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming its economic systems. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on the operations of the Company and its PRC customers. The Company and its PRC customers may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation or imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Subsequent to the accession of the PRC into the World Trade Organization in November 2001, there has been no immediate adverse impact on the satellite industry in the PRC market. However, its long-term implications are uncertain. The PRC government has mandated that international satellite channels must distribute their channels in the PRC using a unified satellite platform different from the APSTAR System. The implications of this requirement are not yet certain. There can be no assurance that the PRC government will not further mandate part or all Chinese satellite channels to be distributed in certain satellite platforms other than APSTAR System. Since nearly half of the Company’s revenue is derived from the PRC, there may be an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Most of the payments under the Company’s transponder utilization agreements are required to be made in US Dollars. The PRC currently has extensive foreign exchange controls. The ability of the Company’s PRC customers to convert Renminbi (the currency of the PRC) into foreign currency and to purchase foreign currency is subject to various PRC laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that in the future the PRC’s foreign exchange controls will not adversely affect the ability of the Company’s PRC customers to make payments to the Company in US Dollars. The Outbreak of Infectious Diseases The past outbreak of a highly infectious deadly flu-like disease known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) in the Asia Pacific region severely affected the economic environment of most of Asia. In addition, there had been occasional incidences of avian flu reported in the Asia Pacific region, including Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand and the PRC, and deadly H5N1 was proved in certain cases. Effective treatments and vaccination for such diseases are not yet available, and therefore further outbreaks of SARS, avian flu or other similar diseases could adversely affect the economies of the region. Catastrophic Events In early 2008, parts of Mainland China, experienced severe winter weather which resulted in extensive damages to factories, electricity supplies, water suppliers, farmlands, transportation and communications. On May 4, 2008, a tropical cyclone battered the Irrawaddy region of Burma killing hundreds of people and leaving tens of thousands people homeless. On May 12, 2008, a catastrophic earthquake reportedly at 8.0 on Richter scale struck Sichuan Province of China. The earthquake has devastated a very wide region in Sichuan Province, killing tens of thousands of people and causing widespread damage to houses, facilities, transportation and communications with serious hazards of quake lakes bursting. Though a lot of terrestrial communication networks including land cables and base stations were handicapped or destroyed by such catastrophic events, the satellite telecommunication facilities of APT Group have remained fully operational and unaffected. It is unable, at this stage, to have a clear assessment on the consequence and impact, if any, on the APT Group’s business. However, such catastrophic events may upset the economic activities in those affected areas, which may in turn have material effect on the transponder market over the coming years. -18- Table of Contents 