ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Qualification of Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements contained anywhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not limited to historical information are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, plans or strategies regarding the future. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations which are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this report and in other documents filed by us with the SEC, which may cause actual results to be materially different from those anticipated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Forward-looking statements are sometimes indicated by words such as “may,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate” and similar expressions. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements contained anywhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not limited to historical information are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, plans or strategies regarding the future. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations which are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in this report and in other documents filed by us with the SEC, which may cause actual results to be materially different from those anticipated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Forward-looking statements are sometimes indicated by words such as “may,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate” and similar expressions. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere herein and in other documents filed by us with the SEC, the matters discussed below under the heading “Risk Factors” should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and future prospects. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our term loan and subordinated debt. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006 our total debt was $624.3 million, excluding unused revolving loan commitments under our senior credit facility and $1.9 million of obligations under our contingent note fund, which represented approximately 50.7% of our total capitalization. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and thus making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, payments under our contingent notes, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Despite our level of indebtedness, we will be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. The revolving credit facility that is part of the senior secured credit facility provides commitments of up to $105.0 million. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The agreements governing our debt impose, or will impose, significant operating restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions that may be in our interest. The agreements governing our debt contain, or will contain, various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants will limit our ability to, among other things: • incur, assume, or guarantee additional debt and issue or sell preferred stock; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make investments; • create or permit certain liens; • use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; 20 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with affiliates; • conduct certain business activities; and • consolidate or merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the senior secured credit facility requires our subsidiaries to comply with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of specified financial ratios. See “Description of Other Indebtedness.” The ability of our subsidiaries that are obligors under the senior secured credit facility and indenture governing the existing senior subordinated notes to meet those financial tests can be affected by events beyond their and our control, and they may not be able to meet those tests. Their failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the senior secured credit facility or the indenture governing the existing senior subordinated notes which could, in turn, result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our cash flow from operations declined $7.6 million from $38.2 million in 2005 to $30.6 million in 2006. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including payments on the notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible or that any assets could be sold on acceptable terms or otherwise. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may, directly or indirectly, reduce our revenues and harm our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Several areas of regulatory compliance that may affect our ability to conduct business include: • federal and state anti-kickback laws, • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law, • federal and state false claims laws, • state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine, • state laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting, • federal and state antitrust laws, • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, • federal and state regulation of privacy, security and electronic transactions and code sets, • federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste, and • federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are extremely complex. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. It also is possible that the courts could ultimately interpret these laws in a manner that is different from our interpretations. While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our business could be materially harmed by future interpretation or implementation of state laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine. The manner in which licensed physicians can be organized to perform and bill for medical services is governed by state laws and regulations. Under the laws of some states, business corporations generally are not permitted to employ physicians or to own corporations that employ physicians or to otherwise exercise control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians. We believe that we currently are in compliance with the corporate practice of medicine laws in the states in which we operate in all material respects. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that regulatory authorities or other parties will not assert that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the laws of a particular state will not change. If such a claim were successfully asserted in any jurisdiction, or as a result of such a change in law, we could be required to restructure our contractual and other arrangements, we and our pathologists could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, and some of our existing contracts, including non-competition provisions, could be found to be illegal and unenforceable. In addition, expansion of our operations to other states may require structural and organizational modification of our form of relationship with pathologists, operations or hospitals. These results or the inability to successfully restructure contractual arrangements would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be hurt by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state anti-kickback and anti-referral laws. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit the offer, solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in exchange for referrals of products and services for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs. Federal and state anti-referral laws, including the Stark Law, generally prohibit physicians from referring their patients to healthcare providers with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a financial relationship for certain designated health services when such services are subject to reimbursement by Medicare or Medicaid and do not otherwise meet exceptions to the law or applicable regulations. A violation of any of these laws could result in monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, which accounted for approximately 19% of our revenues during 2006. Our affiliates owe some of our physicians contingent payment obligations entered into in connection with acquisitions we have completed and some of our physicians are a party to compensation arrangements with us and own common stock of AmeriPath Holdings. Although we have attempted to structure our businesses so that our financial relationships with our physicians and our referral practices comply in all material respects with federal and state anti-referral laws, including the Stark Law, the government may take the position that they do not comply, or a prohibited referral may be made by one of our physicians without our knowledge. If our financial relationships with our physicians were found to be unlawful or unlawful referrals were found to have been made, we or they could be fined, become subject to government recoupment of fees previously paid to us, and forfeiture of revenues due to us, or become subject to civil and criminal penalties. In such situations, we also may be excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Any one of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be harmed by future interpretation or implementation of state law prohibitions on fee-splitting. Many states prohibit the splitting or sharing of fees between physicians and non-physicians. We believe our arrangements with pathologists and operations comply in all material respects with the fee-splitting laws of the states in which we operate. Nevertheless, it is possible that regulatory authorities or other parties could claim we are engaged in fee-splitting. If such a claim were successfully asserted in any jurisdiction, our pathologists could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including loss of licensure, and we could be required to restructure our contractual and other arrangements. In addition, expansion of our operations to new states with fee-splitting prohibitions may require structural and organizational modification to the form of our current relationships which may be less profitable. A claim of fee-splitting or modification of our business to avoid such a claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state regulation of privacy could cause us to incur significant costs. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, pursuant to consumer protection laws, and the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, pursuant to HIPAA, regulate the use and disclosure of information we may have about our patients. Many states also have laws regarding privacy of health information. While we believe that we are in compliance with FTC and state laws regarding privacy, and with the HIPAA privacy regulations, these laws are complex and will have an impact upon our operations. 22 Table of Contents Violations of the HIPAA privacy regulations are punishable by civil and criminal penalties. In addition, while individuals do not have a private right of action under HIPAA, the privacy regulations may be viewed by the courts as setting a standard of conduct, and the failure to comply could serve as the basis for a private claim. In addition, HIPAA regulations regarding the security of electronic health information and standards for electronic transactions also apply to our business. We are subject to significant professional or other liability claims and we cannot assure you that insurance coverage will be available or sufficient to cover such claims. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We and our pathologists periodically become involved as defendants in medical malpractice and other lawsuits, some of which are currently ongoing, and are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damage awards. Through June 30, 2002, we were insured for medical malpractice risks on a claims made basis under traditional professional liability insurance policies. In July 2002, we began using a captive insurance program to partially self-insure our medical malpractice risk. Under the captive insurance program we retain more risk for medical malpractice costs, including settlements and claims expenses, than under our prior coverage. We have no aggregate excess stop loss protection under our captive insurance arrangements, meaning there is no aggregate limitation on the amount of risk we retain under these arrangements. Because of our self-insurance arrangements and our lack of aggregate excess stop loss protection, professional malpractice claims could result in substantial uninsured losses. In addition, it is possible that the costs of our captive insurance arrangements and excess insurance coverage will rise, causing us either to incur additional costs or to further limit the amount of our coverage. Further, our insurance does not cover all potential liabilities arising from governmental fines and penalties, indemnification agreements and certain other uninsurable losses. For example, from time to time we agree to indemnify third parties, such as hospitals and national clinical laboratories, for various claims that may not be covered by insurance. As a result, we may become responsible for substantial damage awards that are uninsured. We are currently subject to indemnity claims, which if determined adversely to us, could result in substantial uninsured losses. Therefore, it is possible that pending or future claims will not be covered by or will exceed the limits of our insurance coverage and indemnification agreements or that third parties will fail or otherwise be unable to comply with their obligations to us. Government programs account for approximately 19% of our revenues, so a decline in reimbursement rates from government programs would harm our revenues and profitability. We derived approximately 19% of our net revenues during 2006 from payments made by government programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. These programs are subject to substantial regulation by federal and state governments. Any changes in reimbursement policies, practices, interpretations or statutes that place limitations on reimbursement amounts or change reimbursement coding practices could materially harm our business by reducing revenues and lowering profitability. Increasing budgetary pressures at both the federal and state levels and concerns over escalating costs of healthcare have led, and may continue to lead, to significant reductions in healthcare reimbursements, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incur financial risk related to collections as well as potentially long collection cycles when seeking reimbursement from third-party payors. Substantially all of our net revenues are derived from services for which our operations charge on a fee-for-service basis. Accordingly, we assume the financial risk related to collection, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts, and long collection cycles for accounts receivable, including reimbursements by third-party payors, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Our provision for doubtful accounts for 2006 was 11.3% of net revenues, with net revenues from inpatient services having a provision for doubtful accounts of approximately 29.1%. If our revenue from hospital-based services increases as a percentage of our total net revenues, our provision for doubtful accounts as a percentage of total net revenues may increase. Increases in write-offs of doubtful accounts, delays in receiving payments or potential retroactive adjustments and penalties resulting from audits by payors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to services billed on a fee-for-service basis, our hospital-based pathologists in their capacities as medical directors of hospitals’ clinical laboratories, microbiology laboratories and blood banking operations, bill non-Medicare patients according to a fee schedule for their clinical professional component, or CPC, services. Our historical collection experience for CPC services is significantly lower than other anatomic pathology procedures. See “Business—Billing.” Hospitals and third party payors are continuing to increase pressure to reduce our revenues from CPC services, including but not limited to encouraging their patients not to pay us for such services. 23 Table of Contents The continued growth of managed care may have a material adverse effect on our business. The number of individuals covered under managed care contracts or other similar arrangements has grown over the past several years and may continue to grow in the future. In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and other government healthcare programs may continue to shift to managed care. In 2005 and 2006, approximately 54%, and 44%, respectively, of our net revenue was derived from reimbursements from managed care organizations and third party payors. Entities providing managed care coverage have reduced payments for medical services in numerous ways, including entering into arrangements under which payments to a service provider are capitated, limiting testing to specified procedures, denying payment for services performed without prior authorization and refusing to increase fees for specified services. These trends reduce our revenues and limit our ability to pass cost increases to our customers. Also, if these or other managed care organizations do not select us as a participating provider, we may lose some or all of that business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There has been an increasing number of state and federal investigations of healthcare companies, which may increase the likelihood of investigations of our business practices and the possibility that we will become subject to lawsuits. Prosecution of fraudulent practices by healthcare companies is a priority of the United States Department of Justice, HHS’s Office of the Inspector General, or OIG, and state authorities. The federal government has become more aggressive in examining laboratory billing practices and seeking repayments and penalties allegedly resulting from improper billing practices, such as using an improper billing code for a test to realize higher reimbursement. While the primary focus of this initiative has been on hospital laboratories and on routine clinical chemistry tests, which comprise only a small portion of our revenues, the scope of this initiative could expand, and it is not possible to predict whether or in what direction the expansion might occur. In certain circumstances, federal and some state laws authorize private whistleblowers to bring false claim or qui tam suits against providers on behalf of the government and reward the whistleblower with a portion of any final recovery. In addition, the federal government has engaged a number of non-governmental audit organizations to assist in tracking and recovering false claims for healthcare services. Since investigations relating to false claims have increased in recent years, it is more likely that companies in the healthcare industry, like us, could become the subject of a federal or state civil or criminal investigation or action. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with federal and state fraud and abuse statutes and regulations, and we monitor our billing practices and hospital arrangements for compliance with prevailing industry practices under applicable laws, these laws are complex and constantly evolving, and it is possible that governmental investigators may take positions that are inconsistent with our practices. Moreover, even when the results of an investigation or a qui tam suit are favorable to a company, the process is time consuming and legal fees and diversion of company management focus are expensive. Any lengthy investigation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Investigations of entities with which we do business and regulatory audits could adversely affect us. Entities with which we do business have been under investigation with respect to fraud and abuse issues. The government’s investigation of these entities could result in investigations of one or more of our operations. Furthermore, we have received subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s office in Tampa, Florida to deliver Medicare billing records and other documents relating to alleged financial inducements received by a Florida physician who is not a pathologist with us but was one of our clients. In addition, certain of our affiliates received subpoenas from the Florida Attorney General Medicaid Fraud Control Unit requesting copies of agreements that we have with certain hospitals and certain patient records. To our knowledge, numerous other hospitals and facilities have received similar subpoenas, which may indicate a state-wide audit of pathology operations. Specialty Laboratories, Inc., a California corporation received a subpoena from the California Attorney General’s Office. The subpoena seeks various documents including documents relating to billings to the Medicaid program with time frames ranging from three to ten years. We are providing or have provided information to the United States Attorney’s Office, the Florida Attorney General’s Office and California Attorney General’s Office and intend to cooperate in the investigations. It is not possible at this point in the investigation to determine whether the government will pursue action against us or to assess the merits of possible defenses we may have to any such action. Accordingly, no assurances can be given regarding the ultimate outcome of the investigations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from short-term hospital contracts and hospital relationships that can be terminated without penalty. Many of our hospital contracts may be terminated prior to the expiration of the initial or any renewal term by either party with relatively short notice and without cause. We also have business relationships with hospitals that are not governed by written contracts and may be terminated by the hospitals at any time. Loss of a hospital contract or relationship would not only result in a loss of net revenues but may also result in a loss of the outpatient net revenues derived from our association with the hospital and its medical staff. Any such loss could also result in an impairment of the balance sheet value of the assets we have acquired or may acquire, requiring substantial charges to earnings. Continuing consolidation in the hospital industry resulting in fewer hospitals and fewer laboratories enhances the risk that some of our hospital contracts and relationships may be terminated, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If we cannot effectively implement our internal growth strategy, it would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our focus on internal growth, which is based upon our existing relationships and services offered, is a departure from our prior focus on growth through acquisitions. The success of our strategy rests upon expanding our personnel and expertise to be able to provide a broader range of services so we can increase testing volumes, improving the mix of our services and obtaining more favorable pricing, all of which will result in a greater focus on our sales and marketing function. The success of this strategy also is dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, including pathologists, to develop new areas of expertise and new customer relationships and to expand our current relationships with existing customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make our new strategy a success. We may inherit significant liabilities and may be unable to achieve anticipated cost savings and other synergies from operations that we have acquired or acquire in the future. We perform due diligence investigations with respect to potential liabilities of acquired operations and typically obtain indemnification from the sellers of such operations. Nevertheless, undiscovered claims may arise, and liabilities for which we become responsible may be material and may exceed either the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of the indemnifying parties. Claims or liabilities of acquired operations may include matters involving compliance with laws, including healthcare laws. While we believe, based on our due diligence investigations, that our acquired operations were generally in compliance with applicable healthcare laws prior to their acquisition, they may not have been in full compliance and we may become accountable for their non-compliance. A violation of the healthcare laws could result in monetary fines, government recoupment of fees previously paid to us, forfeiture of revenues due to us or civil and criminal penalties. In such situations, we may also be excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Any one of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration of an acquired company’s operations following the consummation of a acquisition involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. In particular, we may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from the acquired company with our management and personnel. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated cost savings or other synergies. For instance, in January 2006, we consummated an acquisition of Specialty, and Specialty became a wholly-owned subsidiary of AmeriPath. Failure to integrate the acquisition of Specialty, or a future acquired company, successfully may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in net identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Net identifiable intangible assets, which include hospital contracts, management service agreements and laboratory contracts acquired in acquisitions, were approximately $215.6 million at December 31, 2006, representing approximately 15.3% of our total assets. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $846.5 million at December 31, 2006, representing approximately 60.0% of our total assets. Goodwill and net identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” will be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance of the acquired company, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment must be written off. We evaluated our recorded goodwill and identifiable intangible assets during December 2006 and determined that there was no asset impairment charge required with respect to our intangible assets. We may not ever realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the recruitment and retention of qualified pathologists. Our business is dependent upon recruiting and retaining pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, such as dermatopathology, hematopathology, immunopathology and cytopathology. While we have been able to recruit and retain pathologists in the past, we may be unable to continue to do so in the future as fair market value competition for the services of pathologists increases. In addition, we may need to provide more compensation to our pathologists in order to enhance our recruitment and retention efforts and may be unable to recover these increased costs through price increases. The relationship between the pathologists and their respective local medical communities is important to the operation and continued profitability of each of our local operations. Loss of even one of our pathologists could lead to the loss of hospital contracts or other sources of revenue derived from our relationship with the pathologist. For the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, turnover rates for our pathologists were 9.8%, 9.2%, and 10.8%, respectively. If turnover rates were to increase, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to enforce non-competition provisions with departed pathologists. Each of our pathologists typically enters into an employment agreement with us or a physician-owned entity we control. Most of these employment agreements prohibit the pathologist from competing with our company or its subsidiary within a defined geographic area and prohibit solicitation of other pathologists, employees or clients for a period of one to two years after termination of employment. We attempt to structure all of these contracts in accordance with applicable laws and to maintain and enforce these contracts as necessary. However, agreements not to compete are subject to many limitations under state law and these limitations may vary from state to state. We cannot predict whether a court will enforce the non-competition covenants in our various employment agreements. A finding that these covenants are unenforceable could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from other providers of pathology services may materially harm our business. We have numerous competitors, including anatomic pathology practices, large physician group practices, hospital laboratories, specialized commercial laboratories and the anatomic pathology divisions of some national clinical laboratories. Moreover, companies in other healthcare segments, some of which have previously been customers of ours, such as hospitals, national clinical laboratories, managed care organizations and other third-party payors, may enter our markets and begin to compete with us. For example, Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated, or Quest, a national clinical laboratory company and former customer of ours, has begun to compete with us in some markets. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us, which could further intensify competition. Increasing competition may erode our customer base, reduce our sources of revenue, cause us to reduce prices, enter into more capitated contracts in which we take on greater pricing risks or increase our marketing and other costs of doing business. Increasing competition may also impede our growth objectives by making it more difficult or more expensive for us to acquire or affiliate with additional pathology operations. If advances in technology allow others to perform assays similar to ours, the demand for our assays may decrease. The field of specialized clinical laboratory testing is characterized by advancing technology which may enable other clinical laboratories, hospitals, physicians or other medical providers to perform assays with properties similar to ours in a more efficient or cost-effective manner than is currently possible. Such technological advances may be introduced by our competitors, or other third parties. For instance, a diagnostic manufacturing company could release an instrument or technology that would make it cost-effective for our customers to perform complex assays internally, rather than through us. If these or other advances in technology allow other entities to perform testing we currently perform, it could result in a decreased demand for our assays, and our assay volume and net revenue would decline. We may also be forced to lower prices on our assays to reduce the likelihood that other entities, including our clients, will perform such testing. Any assay volume, test price or revenue reductions would significantly harm our business. Typically, we market new specialized assays at premium prices until similar assays are developed as either standardized prepared kits for broad application or as internally developed assays by competing laboratories. The opportunity to sell our products at premium prices may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors are able to develop and market competing assays more quickly than they currently do. We may also be forced to lower prices on our assays to reduce the likelihood that other entities, including our clients, will perform testing we currently perform for them. If we are unable to develop and successfully market new assays or improve existing assays in a timely manner, our profit margins may decline. In order to maintain our margins and benefit from the premium prices that we typically charge for our newly introduced specialized assays, we must continually develop new assays and improve our existing assays through licensing arrangements with third parties and through the efforts of our R&D department. We can provide no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our current pace of developing and improving assays in the future. Even if we develop such assays in a timely manner, our customers may not utilize these new assays. If we fail to develop new technologies, release new or improved assays on a timely basis, or if such assays do not obtain market acceptance, our profit margins may decline. We depend on numerous complex information systems, and any failure to successfully maintain those systems or implement new systems could materially harm our operations. We depend upon numerous information systems for operational and financial information, test reporting for our physicians and our complex billing operations. We currently have several major information technology initiatives underway, including the integration of information from our operations. No assurance can be given that we will be able to enhance existing or implement new 26 Table of Contents information systems that can integrate successfully our disparate operational and financial information systems. In addition to their integral role in helping our operations realize efficiencies, these new systems are critical to developing and implementing a comprehensive enterprise-wide management information database. To develop an integrated network, we must continue to invest in and administer sophisticated management information systems. We may experience unanticipated delays, complications and expenses in implementing, integrating and operating our systems. Furthermore, our information systems may require modifications, improvements or replacements as we expand and as new technologies become available. These modifications, improvements or replacements may require substantial expenditures and may require interruptions in operations during periods of implementation. Moreover, implementation of these systems is subject to the availability of information technology and skilled personnel to assist us in creating and implementing the systems. The failure to successfully implement and maintain operation, financial, test reports, billing and physician practice information systems would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to timely or accurately bill for our services may have a substantial negative impact on our revenues, cash flow and bad debt expense. Billing for laboratory testing services involves numerous parties and complex issues and procedures. The industry practice is to perform tests in advance of payment and without certainty as to the outcome of the billing process. We bill various payors, such as patients, government programs, physicians, hospitals and managed care organizations. These various payors have different billing information requirements and typically reimburse us only for medically necessary tests and only after we comply with a variety of procedures, such as providing them with Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes and other information. If we do not meet all of the payors’ stringent requirements, we may not be reimbursed, which would increase our bad debt expense. Among many other factors complicating our billing are: • disputes between payors as to which party is responsible for payment, • disparity in coverage among various payors, and • difficulty satisfying the specific compliance requirements and CPT coding of and other procedures mandated by various payors. The complexity of laboratory billing also tends to cause delays in our cash collections. Confirming incorrect or missing billing information generally slows down the billing process and increases the age of our accounts receivable. We assume the financial risk related to collection, including the potential write-off of doubtful accounts and delays due to incorrect or missing information. Our tests and business processes may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could cause us to engage in costly litigation, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our services. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. As a result, we may be involved in intellectual property litigation and may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease developing and performing services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, • obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, • redesign or reengineer our tests, • change our business processes or • pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys’ fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement determined to be willful. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, any requirement to reengineer our tests or change our business processes could substantially increase our costs, force us to interrupt the delivery of our services or delay new test releases. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 