Risk Factors – General Risk Related to Our Business and Market. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding buy-back obligations totaling approximately $911 million that extend through 2017. 64 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Executive Officers Board of Directors Our directors as of February 28, 2009 are as follows: Name Age Director Since Michael Federmann (Chairman) 65 2000 Moshe Arad 74 2005 Avraham Asheri 71 2000 Rina Baum 63 2001 David Federmann 34 2007 Yaacov Lifshitz (External Director) 64 2003 Yigal Ne’eman 68 2004 Dov Ninveh 61 2000 Nathan Sharony (External Director) 74 2002 The term of office of each director, other than the External Directors, expires at the annual general shareholders meeting to be held during 2009. The term of office for Yaacov Lifshitz as an External Director expires in August 2009, and the term of office for Nathan Sharony as an External Director expires on the earlier of March 23, 2011 or the date of the annual general meeting of shareholders to be held in 2010. Michael Federmann. Michael Federmann has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2000. He has held managerial positions in the Federmann Group since 1969, and since 2002 he has served as Chairman and CEO of Federmann Enterprises Ltd. (FEL). Currently, he also serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dan Hotels Corp. Ltd. (Dan Hotels). Mr. Federmann is Deputy Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem (the Hebrew University) and a member of the Board of Governors and the Executive Council of the Weizmann Institute of Science. He serves as the President of the Israel-Germany Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science from the Hebrew University. Moshe Arad. Moshe Arad served as Vice President for External Relations of the Hebrew University from 1994 to 2004. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. From 1994 to 1999, he was a member of the Board of Directors of Elbit Ltd. During 1992 and 1993, Mr. Arad served as Director General of the Israel Ministry of Communications. From 1990 to 1992, he was a member of the Tel-Aviv law firm of Herzog, Fox, Ne’eman. Mr. Arad served as Israel’s Ambassador to the United States from 1987 to 1990 and as Israel’s Ambassador to Mexico from 1983 to 1987. Ambassador Arad holds a bachelor’s degree in political science and international relations and a L.L.B. degree from the Hebrew University. Mr. Arad serves on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. Avraham Asheri. Avraham Asheri has served as an economic advisor and a director of several companies since 1998. He currently serves on the Boards of Directors of Elron Electronic Industries Ltd., Discount Mortgage Bank Ltd., Koor Industries Ltd., Mikronet Ltd. and Africa Israel Investment Ltd. Mr. Asheri was President and Chief Executive Officer of Israel Discount Bank from 1991 until 1998, and Executive Vice President and member of its management committee from 1983 until 1991. Prior to that, he served for 23 years at the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade and at the Israel Ministry of Finance, including as Director General of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade, Managing Director of the Israel Investment Center and Trade Commissioner of Israel to the United States. Mr. Asheri holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science from the Hebrew University. Mr. Asheri serves as the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. 65 Table of Contents Rina Baum. Rina Baum is Vice President for Investments of FEL, and since 1986 has served as Director and General Manager of Unico Investment Company Ltd. She serves as a director of Dan Hotels, Etanit Building Products Ltd. and Incotec Ltd., as well as in other managerial positions within the Federmann Group. She also serves as a director in Harel-PIA Mutual Funds Management Company Ltd. Mrs. Baum holds an L.L.B. degree from the Hebrew University. David Federmann. David Federmann has served in various management capacities in FEL since 2000 and since 2002 as Business Development Manager of Freiberger Compound Materials GmbH in Freiberg, Germany. He serves on the Boards of Directors of Dan Hotels Corp. Ltd. and BGN Technologies (the Technology Transfer Company of Ben-Gurion University). David Federmann is the son of Michael Federmann, Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and philosophy from New York University. Yaacov Lifshitz (External Director). Yaacov Lifshitz serves as a director of several companies and as a lecturer in the fields of economics, public policy and management. He currently is a lecturer at the Department of Economics and the Department of Public Policy and Management of Ben-Gurion University. He also currently serves on the Boards of Directors of Kali – Insurance Agencies Ltd. and Union Bank of Israel. During the period from 1994 to 2002, Mr. Lifshitz served at various times as the Chairman of the Boards of Directors of Hamashbir Lazarchan Israel Ltd., Israel Military Industries Ltd., Spectronix Ltd., Dor Chemicals Ltd., Dor Energy Ltd., DorGas Ltd. and the Israeli Foreign Trade Risk Insurance Corp. Ltd. He also served from 1995 to 2002 as the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Israel Management Center. Prior to that he held various senior positions in the Israeli government, banking and industry, including Director General of the Israel Ministry of Finance, Chief Economic Advisor to the Israel Ministry of Defense, Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of Israel Discount Bank and President and CEO of Electra (Israel) Ltd. Mr. Lifshitz holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science and a master’s degree in economics from the Hebrew University. Mr. Lifshitz is a member of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. Mr. Lifshitz has also been designated by the Company’s Board of Directors as the “Audit Committee Financial Expert” under applicable U.S. rules and regulations. Yigal Ne’eman. Yigal Ne’eman has served as the Chairman and President of the Israel College since 1994. From 1989 to 1993, he served as Chairman and as a shareholder of several industrial, commercial and service companies. Mr. Ne’eman served as the President and CEO of Tadiran Ltd. (Tadiran) from 1981 to 1989. During that period he served as Chairman of the Boards of Directors of Elisra and Elop. Prior to that he held a number of management positions in the control and finance departments of Tadiran. Mr. Ne’eman completed his accounting studies at the Hebrew University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Ne’eman serves as a member of the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. Dov Ninveh. Dov Ninveh has served as Chief Financial Officer and a manager in FEL since 1994. He serves as a director of Dan Hotels and Etanit Ltd. Mr. Ninveh served as a director of Elop from 1996 until 2000. From 1989 to 1994, he served as Deputy General Manager of Etanit Building Products Ltd. Mr. Ninveh holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and management from the Israel Institute of Technology (the Technion). Nathan Sharony (External Director). Nathan Sharony has served as a director for several companies since 1997. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Tritec 21 Industries Ltd. and as a director for Bituach Yashir Ltd., an insurance company, Union Bank, Genoa Technologies Ltd., H-Tachof Ltd. and Israel Bonds International Inc. From 1997 to 1999, he served as Chairman of Technorov Holdings (1993) Ltd. From 1994 to 1997, he was Chief Executive Officer of Israel Bonds, a U.S. brokerage. Mr. Sharony served as the Director General of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade from 1992 to 1994. Prior to that, Mr. Sharony held a number of positions in industry and government including head of the Israeli government Economic Mission to the U.S., President and Chief Executive Officer of Elop and Vice President for Logistics of Tadiran. In 1982, Mr. Sharony completed 30 years of service in the Israel Defense Forces, retiring with the rank of Major General. Mr. Sharony 66 Table of Contents participated in the Field Artillery Battery Officers Course in Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Mr. Sharony serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. Executive Officers Our executive officers as of February 28, 2009 are as follows: Name Age Position Joseph Ackerman 59 President and Chief Executive Officer David Block Temin 53 Executive Vice President – Chief Legal Officer andChief Compliance Officer Guy Brill 57 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division Itzhak Dvir 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jacob Gadot 61 Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions Ran Galli 60 Executive Vice President – Strategic Initiatives Joseph Gaspar 60 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Zeev Gofer 56 Executive Vice President – Business Development and Marketing Dalia Gonen 56 Executive Vice President – Human Resources Ran Hellerstein 58 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division Raanan Horowitz 48 President and Chief Executive Officer – Elbit Systems of America Haim Kellerman 55 Executive Vice President and General Manager – UAS Division Bezhalel Machlis 45 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I – Tadiran Division Ilan Pacholder 54 Executive Vice President – Offset, Industrial Cooperation and Financing Marco Rosenthal 61 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division Haim Rousso 62 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Electro-Optics Elop Division Gideon Sheffer 60 Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning Yoram Shmuely 48 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division Joseph Ackerman. Joseph Ackerman was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer in 1996. From 1996 to 2004, he served as a member of our board of directors. From 1994 to 1996, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Elbit Ltd.’s Defense Systems Division (EDS). Mr. Ackerman joined Elbit Ltd. in 1982 and held various management positions, including General Manager – EFW, Senior Vice President – Operations Company, Vice President – Operations and Vice President – Advanced Battlefield Systems. He serves as Chairman or as a director on the boards of many of our affiliated companies. Mr. Ackerman holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Technion. David Block Temin. David Block Temin was appointed as an Executive Vice President in April 2008 and as Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer in January 2008, after serving as Corporate Vice President since 2000 and as General Counsel since 1996. From 1987 to 1996, he was a Legal Advisor to Elbit Ltd. Prior to that, Mr. Block Temin was an attorney with law firms in New York City. Mr. Block Temin received a juris doctor degree as well as a master of arts degree in international relations from Stanford University and holds a bachelor of arts degree in political science from the University of Maryland. He is admitted to the Israeli and New York bars. 67 Table of Contents Guy Brill. Guy Brill was appointed as an Executive Vice President in April 2008 and has served as Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division since 2005. He became a Corporate Vice President in 2005. From 2001 until 2005, he served as Corporate Vice President – Business Synergy of Elbit Systems U.S. Corp., a U.S. subsidiary of the Company. Prior to that he held various management positions including Elbit Systems’ Chief Operating Officer, Co-Manager of the C3 and Battlefield Information Systems Strategic Business Unit, Vice President for Processes Improvement and Quality and Vice President and Division Manager of the Command and Control Systems Division of EDS. Mr. Brill joined Elbit Ltd. in 1985. Prior to that, Mr. Brill served in the IDF in the R&D branch of the Ground Forces, and as an artillery officer, where he holds the rank of Colonel (reserve). Mr. Brill holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. He is also a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program. Itzhak Dvir. Itzhak Dvir was appointed as an Executive Vice President in April 2008 and has served as Chief Operating Officer since 2004. He was appointed as a Corporate Vice President in 2000. Mr. Dvir served as General Manager – UAV, Tactical and Security Systems from 2003 until 2004. From 2000 through 2002, he was General Manager – C4I and Battlefield Systems. From 1996 until 2000, he was Vice President and Division Manager – UAV and C3 Division. Mr. Dvir joined Elbit Ltd. in 1989 and held various management positions, including Vice President – UAV Division, Vice President – Advance Battlefield Systems Division and Marketing Director – Battlefield Systems Division. Prior to that he served as a career officer in the IAF, retiring with the rank of Colonel. Mr. Dvir holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Technion and a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. Jacob Gadot. Jacob Gadot was appointed as Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions in April 2008, after serving as Corporate Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions since 2000. He also served as Chief Technology Officer from 2001 until 2005. Mr. Gadot held the position of Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions from 1998 to 2000 and Vice President – Business Development from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Gadot joined Elbit Ltd. in 1983 and held various positions in EDS, including Vice President – International Marketing and head of the Airborne Division. Prior to that, he worked for Motorola Israel, after serving for ten years as an officer in the IAF. Mr. Gadot holds a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the Technion. Ran Galli. Ran Galli was appointed as Executive Vice President – Strategic Initiatives in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President – Strategic Initiatives since 2005. He served as Corporate Vice President – Major Campaigns from 2003 until 2005. From 1999 until 2003 he served as Corporate Vice President – Business Development and Marketing. Mr. Galli joined Elbit Systems in 1997 as Vice President – Business Development. Prior to that, he served as Corporate Vice President – Business Development and Marketing at Rafael, which he joined in 1990, after retiring from the IAF with the rank of Colonel. In the IAF he served as head of Research and Development, following numerous aircraft program management positions. Mr. Galli holds bachelor and master of science degrees in aeronautical engineering from the Technion. Joseph Gaspar. Joseph Gaspar was appointed as an Executive Vice President in April 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer in 2001. He was appointed as a Corporate Vice President in 2000 and served as Corporate Vice President – Strategy, Technology and Subsidiaries from 2000 until 2001. From 1996 until 2000, he held the position of Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Business Development of Elop. Mr. Gaspar joined Elop in 1975 and held several management positions, including Vice President and General Manager of Elop’s Optronics Product Division and co-manager of an Elop subsidiary in the United States. He serves on the Board of Directors of Starling Advanced Communications Ltd. (Starling). Mr. Gaspar holds a bachelor of science degree from the Technion in electronic engineering with advanced studies in digital signal processing and communication. Zeev Gofer. Zeev Gofer was appointed as Executive Vice President – Business Development and Marketing in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President – Business Development and Marketing since 2003. He previously served as Corporate Vice President and as Co-General Manager – Aircraft and Helicopter Upgrades and Systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1999 until 2000, he was Vice President – Aircraft Upgrades and 68 Table of Contents Airborne Systems Division, having served as Division Manager since 1996. He joined Elbit Ltd. in 1982 and held various management positions, including Director of EDS’ Aircraft Upgrade Division, director of a major aircraft upgrade program, director of avionics system engineering and technical manager of the Lavi aircraft avionics program. He serves on the Board of Directors of Starling. Mr. Gofer holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electronic engineering from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. Dalia Gonen. Dalia Gonen was appointed as Executive Vice President – Human Resources in April 2008 after having been appointed as Corporate Vice President – Human Resources in January 2008. She served as Vice President – Human Resources from 2000 until 2007. She became Director of Human Resources in 1996. Ms. Gonen joined Elbit Ltd. in 1971 and held various positions in the Human Resources Department. Ms. Gonen holds a bachelor of arts degree in sociology from Haifa University and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. Ran Hellerstein. Ran Hellerstein was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aircraft and Helmet Systems since 2003. Mr. Hellerstein served as Corporate Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aircraft and Helicopter Upgrades and Systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1996 until 2000, he served as Vice President – Development and Engineering Division, having served as Division Manager since 1993. Mr. Hellerstein joined Elbit Ltd. in 1978 and served in various management positions, including Manager of EDS’ Engineering Division, department manager, technical manager and systems engineer. Mr. Hellerstein holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electrical engineering from the Technion. Raanan Horowitz. Raanan Horowitz was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Elbit Systems of America in 2007. He served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of EFW from 2001 until his current appointment. From 1991 until 2001, Mr. Horowitz held various management positions with EFW and other U.S. subsidiaries of the Company. From 1989 to 1991, he served as a senior program manager for Elbit Ltd. Mr. Horowitz serves as a consultant on the U.S. Army Science Board and is a member of the national board of directors of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. Mr. Horowitz holds a MBA from the Seidman School of Business of Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Michigan. He also holds a master of science degree in electrical engineering and a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Tel-Aviv University. Haim Kellerman. Haim Kellerman was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – UAS Division in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President and General Manager – UAV Systems since 2004. From 2002 until his current appointment, Mr. Kellerman was Vice President – UAV Programs. Prior to that he held various senior program management positions relating to UAV, C4I and airborne programs. He joined Elbit Ltd. in 1978. Mr. Kellerman holds a bachelor of science degree in computer science from the Technion. Bezhalel Machlis. Bezhalel Machlis was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I – Tadiran Division in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President and General Manager – Land Systems and C4I since 2004. In 2003, he served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager – Ground C4I and Battlefield Systems. From 2000 until 2002, he served as Vice President – Battlefield and Information Systems. Mr. Machlis joined Elbit Ltd. in 1991 and held various management positions in the battlefield and information systems area. Prior to that, he served as an artillery officer in the IDF, where he holds the rank of Colonel (reserves). He serves on the Board of Directors of ChipPC Ltd. Mr. Machlis holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering and a bachelor of arts degree in computer science from the Technion and a MBA from Tel-Aviv University. Ilan Pacholder. Ilan Pacholder was appointed as Executive Vice President – Offset, Industrial Cooperation and Financing in April 2008 after having been appointed as Corporate Vice President – Offset in January 2008. From February – December 2007, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TadComm. Mr. Pacholder served as Corporate Secretary and Vice President – Finance and Capital Markets of Elbit Systems 69 Table of Contents from 2003 until 2006. From 2001 until 2003, he served as Vice President – Finance. Mr. Pacholder joined Elbit Ltd. in 1994 and held various senior positions in the Finance Department. Prior to joining Elbit Ltd. he served as the Chief Financial Officer for Sanyo Industries in New York. Before that Mr. Pacholder worked for Bank Leumi in New York for 10 years and held the position of Vice President in the international and domestic lending departments. Mr. Pacholder holds a bachelor of arts degree in accounting and economics from Queens College in New York and a MBA in finance and investments from Adelphi University. Marco Rosenthal. Marco Rosenthal was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division in April 2008, after serving as Corporate Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division since 2005. He served as Corporate Vice President – Manufacturing and Purchasing from 2001 until 2005, having served from 1999 – 2001 as Vice President – Operations and General Manager of the Karmiel facility. From 1996 to 1999, he served as Vice President – Material. Mr. Rosenthal joined Elbit Ltd. in 1975 and held various management positions, including Vice President – Material of EDS and Director of the Sales Department. Mr. Rosenthal holds a degree in technical engineering from the Technion and a degree in business management from Haifa University. Haim Rousso. Haim Rousso was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – Electro-Optics Elop Division in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Elop since 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Rousso held the position of Corporate Vice President of and General Manager of Elop. He has held various managerial positions in Elop since 1972. Mr. Rousso holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electrical engineering from the Technion. Gideon Sheffer. Gideon Sheffer was appointed as Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President – Strategic Planning since 2001. Prior to that he served as Acting Head of Israel’s National Security Council and as National Security Advisor to former Prime Minister Ehud Barak. In 1998, he completed 32 years of service in the IDF, retiring with the rank of Major General. From 1995 to 1998, he served on the General Staff as Head of the IDF’s Human Resources Branch. Before that, he served as Deputy Commander of the IAF. Mr. Sheffer held a number of command positions in the IAF after serving as a fighter aircraft and helicopter pilot. Mr. Sheffer holds a bachelor’s degree in Israel studies from Bar Ilan University and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program. Yoram Shmuely. Yoram Shmuely was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division in April 2008 after serving as Corporate Vice President and Co-General Manager – Airborne and Helmet Systems since 2003. He served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager – Helmet Mounted Systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1998 until 2000, he was Vice President – Helmet Mounted Systems Division. From its founding in 1996 until 1998, he served as President of VSI. Mr. Shmuely joined Elbit Ltd. in 1990 and served as director of Elbit Ltd.’s Helmet Mounted Display business. He served as a fighter aircraft pilot in the IAF. Mr. Shmuely holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from the Technion. Compensation of Directors and Officers The following table sets forth the aggregate compensation paid to all of our directors and officers as a group for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008: Salaries, Directors’ FeesCommissions and Bonuses Pension, Retirementand Similar Benefits All directors (consisting of 9 persons) $ 266,475 (*) $ — All officers (consisting of 18 persons) $ 8,776,433 $ 1,235,262 (*) Elbit Systems’ shareholders at the annual general shareholders meeting held in 2004 approved payment to directors thereafter in accordance with maximum regulatory rates payable to External Directors under Israeli law for companies similarly classified based on their shareholding equity. These rates were linked to the Israeli consumer price index and were so updated and paid by Elbit Systems through March 2008. At an extraordinary general shareholders meeting held in March 2008, our shareholders approved increasing 70 Table of Contents compensation, effective April 1, 2008, to our External Directors, who have additional duties under applicable foreign law, and to other directors meeting the director independence criteria of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The increased compensation was consistent with amendments to Israeli law regarding compensation to External Directors who serve on the boards of “dual listed” companies, such as Elbit Systems. As a result, External Directors and other such “independent” directors are entitled to an annual fee of NIS 100,000 equal to approximately $24,030 and a per meeting fee of 2,200 NIS, equal to approximately $530. The other directors are paid the following compensation: an annual fee of NIS 50,198 equal to approximately $12,060 and a per meeting fee of NIS 1,948 equal to approximately $470, which reflect the fees levels previously approved at the 2004 annual general shareholders meeting and linked to the Israeli consumer price index. We currently intend to maintain such compensation rates to such directors. Compensation payments to directors are made either directly to the director or to his or her employing company. Board Practices Appointment and Termination of Directors Directors on our board of directors (Board) are recommended for appointment or election by the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. See below “Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.” The current External Directors on our Board of directors were each appointed to three-year terms at a general meeting of shareholders, with Mr. Lifshitz’s term expiring in August 2009 and Mr. Sharony’s term expiring on the earlier of March 23, 2011 or the annual general meeting of shareholders to be held in 2010. The other seven current directors were appointed at the annual general meeting of shareholders held in September 2008. There are no service contracts or similar arrangements with any director that provide for benefits upon termination of directorship. Nasdaq’s director independence and related rules applicable to boards of directors apply to Elbit Systems. Under these rules, our Board is required to meet the Nasdaq director independence criteria. Also applicable are certain other rules regarding independent directors serving on a director nomination committee and the manner for approving the compensation to Elbit Systems’ Chief Executive Officer. Audit Committee. Nathan Sharony (Chairman), Moshe Arad, Avraham Asheri, Yaacov Lifshitz and Yigal Ne’eman are members of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee operates in accordance with an Audit Committee Charter that provides the framework for its oversight functions consistent with Israeli and U.S. legal and regulatory requirements. All of the members of the Audit Committee have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the SEC. The Audit Committee meets from time to time in executive sessions and also conducts annual assessments of the sufficiency of its Charter and of the Committee’s compliance with its obligations. See Item 10. Additional Information – General Provisions of Israeli Law and Related Provisions – Internal Auditor and Audit Committee; Item 16A. Audit Committee – Financial Expert and Item 16D. Exemptions from Listing Standards for Audit Committees. Compensation Committee. Avraham Asheri (Chairman), Moshe Arad and Yaacov Lifshitz are members of the Board’s Compensation Committee. The purpose of the Compensation Committee is to carry out on behalf of the Board the responsibilities of the Board relating to approval of compensation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and other senior officers. All of the committee members have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the SEC. Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Nathan Sharony (Chairman), Avraham Asheri and Yigal Ne’eman are members of the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. This Committee operates in accordance with a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter that specifies its oversight functions consistent with Israeli and U.S. legal and regulatory requirements. The role of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with respect to the 71 Table of Contents qualification of candidates to become Board members and to monitor compliance with corporate governance requirements applicable to Board members. All of the members of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the SEC. A nominee to our Board must have such experience in business or financial matters as would make such nominee an asset to the Board. In recommending director candidates, our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee takes into consideration such factors as it deems appropriate based on our current needs. These factors may include: professional and person ethics and integrity; business, professional and industry knowledge, sophistication and contacts; the ability to make informed and independent judgments on a wide range of issues; relevant skills and experience demonstrated through business, professional, charitable or civic affairs; and the candidate’s ability to devote the required time and effort to serve on our Board. See Item 16.G. Corporate Governance. Employees Number of Employees. Most of our employees are based in Israel, and we have a significant number of employees in the United States. The total number of employees worldwide and the number of employees in the U.S. at the end of 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Total Employees U.S. Employees 2008 10,876 1,826 2007 10,072 1,749 2006 8,030 1,357 Employment Contracts. The majority of our Israeli employees have individual employment contracts. However, by law some employees receive rights under a number of general collective bargaining agreements and under Israeli employment laws. See 