D. RISK FACTORS The following is a list of the material risk factors that may affect our business and our results of operations. We cannot predict nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or a combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Furthermore, we cannot assess the occurrence, probability or likelihood of any such risk factor, or a combination of factors, to materialize. RISKS RELATING TO THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS Suitable locations are critical to the success of a shopping and entertainment center. The choice of suitable locations for the development of shopping and entertainment center projects is an important factor in the success of the individual projects. Ideally, these sites should be located: (i) within, or near, the city center, with well-developed transportation infrastructure (road and rail) located in close proximity to facilitate customer access; and (ii) in areas with sufficient population to support the centers. If we are not able to find sites in the target cities which meet these criteria or which meet our price range, this may materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. Zoning restriction and local opposition can delay or prevent construction of a center. Sites which meet our criteria must be zoned for commercial activities of the type common in shopping and entertainment centers and other developments. Where the existing zoning is not suitable or has yet to be determined, we apply for the required zoning classifications. This procedure may be protracted, particularly in countries where the bureaucracy is cumbersome and inefficient, and we cannot be certain that the process of obtaining proper zoning will be completed with sufficient speed to enable the centers to open ahead of the competition or at all. Opposition by local residents to zoning and/or building permit applications may also cause considerable delays. In addition, arbitrary changes to applicable zoning may jeopardize projects that have already commenced. Therefore, if we cannot receive zoning approvals or if the procedures for the receipt of such zoning approvals are delayed, our costs will increase and competition may strengthen, which will have an adverse effect on our business. Building permits may contain conditions that we must satisfy in order to develop a shopping and entertainment center. Such conditions may require us to contribute to local infrastructure or alter a planned development to include additional landscaping or planted areas. If we are obligated to maintain certain areas of the project site as “green areas” this may reduce leasable areas, which in turn may reduce potential rental revenues while increasing development costs. Certain zoning permits are granted for limited time periods and if the term is not extended the rights revert back to the local government. Furthermore, these rights may be subject to termination under certain circumstances by the government and any termination prior to the expiration of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. We depend on contractors and subcontractors to construct our centers, which may lead to increased development and construction costs and the loss of our competitive advantage. We rely on subcontractors for all of our construction and development activities. If we cannot enter into subcontracting arrangements on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will incur additional costs which will have an adverse effect on our business. The competition for the services of quality contractors and subcontractors may cause delays in construction, thus exposing us to a loss of our competitive advantage. Subcontracting arrangements may be on less favorable terms than would otherwise be available, which may result in increased development and construction costs. By relying on subcontractors, we become subject to a number of risks relating to these entities, such as quality of performance, varied work ethics, performance delays, construction defects and the financial stability of the subcontractors. A shortage of workers woul d have a detrimental effect on us and our subcontractors and, as a result, on our ability to conclude construction phases on time and within budget. We generally require our subcontractors to provide bank guarantees in our favor to financially secure their performance. In the event the subcontractor fails to perform, the bank guarantees provide for a monetary payment to us. The guarantees do not, however, obligate the subcontractors to complete the project and may not adequately cover our costs of completing the project or our lost profits during the period while alternative means of completing the project are sought. 9 Delays in the completion of construction projects could affect our success. An important element in the success of the construction process of our shopping and entertainment center projects is the short construction time (generally 8 to 18 months from the receipt of building permits, depending on the size of the project and location), and our ability to open centers ahead of our competitors, particularly in cities which do not have shopping and entertainment centers of the type constructed by us. This makes us subject to a number of risks relating to these activities, including: · delays in obtaining zoning and other approvals; · the unavailability of materials and labor; · the abilities of subcontractors to complete work competently and on schedule; · the surface and subsurface condition of the land underlying the project; · environmental uncertainties; · extraordinary circumstances or “acts of god”; and · ordinary risks of construction that may hinder or delay the successful completion of a particular project. In addition, under our development contracts with local municipalities, we have deadlines for several of our projects (subject to limited exceptions). If construction of a project does not proceed in accordance with our schedule, we may in some instances be required to pay penalties to the vendor (usually local municipalities) based on the extent of the delay and in rare cases to forfeit rights in the land. The failure to complete a particular project on schedule or on budget may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on attracting third parties to enter into lease agreements, and in particular on anchor tenants. We are dependent on our ability to enter into new leases on favorable terms with third parties, including anchor tenants (such as the operators of cinemas, supermarkets, department stores and electrical appliances stores) in order to receive a profitable price for each shopping and entertainment center or other development. Anchor stores in shopping and entertainment centers play an important part in generating customer traffic and making a center a desirable location for other tenants. We may find it more difficult to engage tenants to enter into leases during periods when market rents are increasing, or when general consumer activity is decreasing, or if there is competition for tenants from competing centers. The recent global economic recession, pressures that affect consumer confidence, job growth, energy costs and income gains c an affect retail sales growth, and a continuing soft economic cycle may impact our ability to find tenants for our shopping and entertainment centers. Failure to attract tenants, the termination of a tenant’s lease, or the bankruptcy or economic decline of a tenant may adversely affect the price obtainable for the shopping and entertainment center and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of tenants to abide by the terms of their agreements may cause delays or result in a temporary or long term decline in rental income, the effects of which we may not be able to offset due to difficulties in finding a suitable replacement anchor tenant. Furthermore, the tenants or operators of units comprising part of a development may be unable to obtain the necessary governmental permits or licenses which are necessary for the operation of their respective businesses (for example, the inability of the operator of the proposed casino to be constructed as part of the Dream Isla nd development to maintain a gaming license due to its failure to qualify or comply with the applicant legal requirements). Where such operations are delayed or not permitted due to lack of necessary permits, a negative impact on the attractiveness of the project and on revenues and cash flows may result. 10 We may lease developed shopping and entertainment centers or other developments at below expected rental rates or sell at a price which is below what was expected. Our current strategy is to dispose of a shopping and entertainment center upon completion. If rental leases decrease below our expectations or if circumstances arise beyond our control, such as market prices, market demand and negative trends, we may have to sell a shopping and entertainment center at a price below our projections. Competition is becoming more aggressive in certain Central and Eastern European countries which may adversely affect our results of operations. The shopping and entertainment centers business in Central and Eastern Europe (“CEE”) is rapidly becoming more competitive with a number of developers becoming active in our target areas, such as Globe Trade Centre SA, ECE Projektmanagement GmbH and TriGranit Holding Limited. The shopping and entertainment centers concept we promote is gaining increasing popularity due to its potentially high yields. Developers compete not only for patrons, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, qualified contractors, experienced system consultants, expert marketing agents and skilled labor. The public bidding process (the process through which we often acquire new properties) is subject to intense competition and some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, all of which may l imit our ability to obtain such projects. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in winning projects that we bid for or which are awarded pursuant to fixed price tenders or that we will otherwise continue to be successful in competing in CEE. If we find and acquire a location that is suitable for the development of a shopping and entertainment center, the suitability of that location may be adversely affected by external factors such as a competing shopping center opening in the same area. In the event that the suitability of a location is adversely affected, the development of our shopping and entertainment center may be delayed or abandoned. In such circumstances, there is no guarantee that we will be able to use the site for an alternative development or be able to sell the site. We may be required to make payments to tenants in occupations who enjoy enhanced occupational rights in order to vacate the premises which may result in budget overruns. We may acquire development sites or existing shopping and entertainment centers that have existing tenants. In so doing, we may acquire lease liabilities and obligations in connection with such acquisitions. As a consequence, our earnings may be affected to the extent that we are obliged to give continued occupation to tenants with lease payments below market rates for the refurbished or redeveloped center. In addition, we may incur costs in obtaining vacant possession of a site where there are existing tenants who have protected occupation rights. We may be required to make additional ex gratia payments to such tenants in order to obtain vacant possession before the contractual expiration of such occupational tenants' lease terms. Such payments may result in budget overruns for the project. We may also be obliged to relocate existing tenants, which could delay the development of the site and add to the cost of development. There is no assurance that we will successfully implement our construct and dispose strategy on the shopping and entertainment business and in such event our results may be materially adversely affected. Our strategy in the shopping and entertainment centers business is to dispose of centers upon completion or to retain and operate a shopping and entertainment center on completion, until economic conditions warrant a profitable sale, if that is likely to be more profitable to us than disposing of it. Our decision to sell properties is based on various factors, including market conditions, and we cannot predict when such sales will actually occur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete dispositions of commercially reasonable terms or at all. Accordingly, our results of operation can be materially adversely affected. 11 Some of our shopping and entertainment centers are co-owned and control of such investments are shared with third parties. Some of our projects are held through joint venture arrangements with third parties with whom we share ownership and control of such assets. As a result, these arrangements entail risks that do not affect projects in which we own a controlling interest, including the possibility that: (i) our joint venture partner might, at any time, have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) our joint venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives, or frustrate the execution of acts which we believe to be in the interests of any particular project; (iii) our joint venture partner may have different objectives than us, including with respect to the appropriate timing and pricing of any sale or refinancing of a development and w hether to enter into agreements with potential contractors, tenants or purchasers; (iv) our joint venture partner might become bankrupt or insolvent; and (v) we may be required to provide financing to make up any shortfall due to our joint venture partner failing to provide such equity finance or to furnish collaterals to the financing banks. Disputes or disagreements with any of our joint venture partners could result in significant delays and increased costs associated with the development of our properties. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions (such as whether to sell, refinance or enter into a lease or contractor agreement and the terms on which to do so) may require approval from a joint venture partner or other third party. If we are unable to reach or maintain agreement with a joint venture partner or other third party on matters relating to the business operations, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS The hotel industry may be affected by economic conditions, oversupply, travel patterns, weather and other conditions beyond our control which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The hotel industry may be adversely affected by changes in national or local economic conditions and other local market conditions, especially in times of economic crisis. Our hotels, and particularly our hotels in London, Amsterdam and Bucharest, may be subject to the risk of oversupply of hotel rooms. Other general risks that may affect our hotel business are changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions, changes in governmental regulations which influence or determine wages, workers’ union activities, increases in land acquisition prices or construction costs, changes in interest rates, the availability of financing for operating or capital needs, and changes in real estate tax rates and other current operating expenses. Unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, volcanic eruptions, outbreaks of epidemics and heal th concerns (such as SARS, avian flu, swine flu) and the economic recession had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on local and international travel patterns and, as a result, on occupancy rates and prices in our hotels. Downturns or prolonged adverse conditions in the real estate or capital markets or in national or local economies and difficulties in securing financing for the development of hotels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, ability to develop new projects and the attainment of our strategic goals. Competition in the hotels industry could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The hotel business is highly competitive. This is particularly the case in those areas where there is an oversupply of rooms, such as in London, Amsterdam and Bucharest. Competitive factors within the industry include: (i) convenience of location and accessibility to business centers; (ii) room rates; (iii) quality of accommodations; (iv) brand name recognition; (v) quality and nature of service and guest facilities provided; (vi) reputation; (vii) convenience and ease of reservation systems; and (viii) the supply and availability of alternative lodging. We operate, and intend to develop or acquire, most of our hotels in geographic locations where other hotels are or may be located. We expect to compete for guests and development sites with national chains, large franchisees and independent operators. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources and better brand name recognition than we do, and may have more established relationships with prospective franchisers, representatives in the construction industry and other parties engaged in the lodging industry. The number of competitive lodging facilities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our hotel occupancy and rates and, therefore, revenues of our hotels. We believe that competition within the lodging market may increase in the foreseeable future especially for our hotels located in Eastern Europ e. New or existing competitors may significantly reduce their rates or offer greater convenience, services or amenities or significantly expand or improve hotels in the markets in which we currently or may subsequently compete, thereby materially adversely affecting our business and results of operations. 12 Acquiring, developing and renovating hotels involve substantial risks, and we cannot be certain of the success of any future projects. Part of our strategy is to develop new hotels and to acquire and redevelop old or under-performing hotels. Acquiring, developing and renovating hotels involves substantial risks, including: (i) costs exceeding budget or amounts agreed upon with contractors, because of various factors, such as delays in completion of construction; (ii) competition for acquisition of suitable development sites from competitors, who may have greater financial resources; (iii) the failure to obtain zoning and construction permits; (iv) unavailability of financing on favorable terms, if at all; (v) the failure of hotels to earn profits sufficient to service debt incurred in construction or renovation, or at all; (vi) the failure to comply with labor and workers’ union legal requirements; (vii) relationships with and quality and timely performance by contractors; and (viii) compliance with changes in governmental rules, regulations, planning and interpretations. We cannot be certain that present or future development or renovation will be successful. If we are not successful in future projects, it will have a material adverse effect on our business. For successful growth, we must be able to develop or acquire hotels on attractive terms and integrate such hotels into our existing operations. For acquired hotels, we must consolidate management, operations, systems, personnel and procedures, which may not be immediately possible due to collective labor agreements or other legal or operational obstacles. Any substantial delays or unexpected costs in this integration process could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be certain that newly acquired (or constructed or refurbished) hotels will perform as we expect or that we will be able to realize p rojected cost savings for acquired hotels. We depend on partners in our joint ventures and collaborative arrangements. The majority of operational hotels in which we own interests are held by us in partnership with other entities, including in particular, Park Plaza Hotels Limited ("Park Plaza"), a public company whose shares are listed for trade on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange (“AIM”). Park Plaza is engaged in ownership, co-ownership, lease, franchising and management of full service four star deluxe hotels and trendy boutique hotels in major gateway cities and regional centers in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. (For additional information regarding our partnership with Park Plaza, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview - Hotels” below). We may in the future enter into joint ventures or other collaborative arrangements with Park Plaza or with other third parties. Our investments in these j oint ventures, including in particular our numerous partnerships with Park Plaza, may, under certain circumstances, be subject to (i) the risk that one of our partners may become bankrupt or insolvent, which may cause us to be unable to fulfill our financial obligations, may trigger a default under our bank financing agreements or, in the event of a liquidation, may prevent us from managing or administering our business or entail a compulsory sale of the hotel at less favorable terms; (ii) the risk that one of our partners may have economic or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, and that such partner may be in a position to veto actions which may be in our best interests; and (iii) the possibility that disputes may arise regarding the continued operational requirements of our hotels that are jointly owned, all of which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on management agreements with Park Plaza which may not provide the intended benefits, and may be terminated. Significant decline in the reputation of Park Plaza or in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our results of operation. Five of the hotels in which we have an interest are either directly or indirectly operated under long-term management agreements with Park Plaza. Park Plaza is the franchisee for certain territories under territorial license and franchise agreements with Carlson, a leading travel and hospitality company which entitles Park Plaza to use the “Park Plaza” trademark. Any significant decline in the reputation of Park Plaza or in its ability to ensure the performance of our hotels at anticipated levels could adversely affect our results of operations. If for any reason Park Plaza loses its principal franchise, we will automatically lose our ability to use the Park Plaza trademark and other benefits, and suffer in the areas of brand name recognition, marketing, and cent ralized reservations systems provided by Park Plaza, which, in turn, could materially affect our operations. If our agreement with Park Plaza is terminated, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain alternative management services of the same standard on similar or better terms. 13 Our agreements with Park Plaza and the Rezidor Hotel Group impose obligations on us that may force us to incur significant costs. Our agreements with Park Plaza and the Rezidor Hotel Group, the management companies of the majority of our operating hotels, contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, hotel operation and maintenance. These standards, restrictions and limitations may conflict with our priorities, and impose capital demands upon us. In addition, Park Plaza and the Rezidor Hotel Group may alter their standards or hinder our ability to improve or modify our hotels. We may be forced to incur significant costs or make capital improvements in order to comply with the requirements of Park Plaza or the Rezidor Hotel Group and, if our relationship with either of these parties is terminated, to change the franchise affiliation of our affected hotels. The value of our investment in our hotel properties is subject to various risks related to ownership and operation of real property. Our investment in hotel properties is subject to varying degrees of risk related to the ownership and operation of real property. The intrinsic value of our hotels and income from the hotels may be materially adversely affected by: · changes in global and national economic conditions, including global or national recession, such as those triggered by the recent economic crisis; · a general or local slowdown in the real property market which may make it difficult to sell a property, such as the recent global slowdown; · political events that may have a material adverse effect on the hotel industry; · competition from other lodging facilities, and oversupply of hotel rooms in a specific location; · material changes in operating expenses, including as a result of changes in real property tax systems or rates or labor laws; · changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; · the effect of present or future environmental laws; · our ongoing need for capital improvements and refurbishments; and · material changes in governmental rules and policies. Our ownership rights in and to our hotel complex in Bucharest, Romania, have been challenged. If such challenges succeed, our results of operations and financial position will be materially adversely affected. Since we acquired a controlling interest in our hotel complex in Bucharest, Romania (which includes the Radisson Blu Bucharest Hotel and the Centerville Apartment Hotel) in 2000, we have encountered a number of attempts to challenge both the validity of the acquisition of the complex and our control over the company owning the rights to the hotel. If any such challenge succeeds, our results of operation and financial position will be materially adversely affected. 14 RISKS RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS The homebuilding industry continues to be cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate or other business conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry has been cyclical historically and continues to be significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: · employment levels; · availability of financing for homebuyers; · interest rates; · consumer confidence; · levels of new and existing homes for sale; · demographic trends; · housing demand; · local laws and regulations; and · acts of terror, floods or earthquakes. These may occur on a global scale, like the recent housing downturn, or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies. Our operations where we have significant inventory will more adversely affect our financial results than our other markets. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other existing homes and rental properties, can also reduce our ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes. As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be less able or willing to buy our homes, or we may need longer periods of time or incur more costs to build them. Because of current market conditions, we may not be able to recapture any increased costs by raising prices and our ability to do so may also be limited by market conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings or the affordability of our homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers cancel or do not honor their contracts. If prospective home buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may decline. Our results of operations depend on the ability of prospective home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. The uncertainties created by recent events in the mortgage markets and their impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, could adversely affect the ability of our prospective customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing prospective home buyers from purchasing our homes. Moreover, increases in the cost of home mortgage financing could prevent prospective home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where prospective customers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a new home from us, increases in mortgage costs and/or lack of availability of mortgages could prevent the buyers of our prospective customers' existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete the purchase, which would result in our prospective customers’ inability to buy a home from us. Similar risks apply to those buyers who are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our home buyers, potential buyers or buyers of our home buyers’ current homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may have excess land inventory if we are not successful in completing housing projects and selling homes profitably. Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. The risks inherent in controlling or purchasing and developing land increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. Thus, we may have provided conditional undertakings to purchase land or bought and developed land at a cost we will not be able to recover fully or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. Our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can also fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in reduced margins or losses in a poorly performing project or market. In the present weak market conditions, we may have to sell homes and land for lo wer margins or at a loss and we may record significant inventory impairment charges. 15 Our goals for years of supply for ownership and control of land and building lots are based on management’s expectations for future volume growth. In light of the weaker market conditions currently prevailing, we might have to significantly slow our purchases of land and lots and make substantial land and lot sales as part of our strategy to reduce our inventory to better match our reduced rate of production. Because future market conditions are uncertain, we cannot provide assurance that these measures would be successful in managing our future inventory risks. We may not be able to achieve ample supply levels in order to meet schedules for housing projects. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of construction, including: · difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers want to live; · shortages of qualified trades people; · reliance on local subcontractors, who may be inadequately capitalized; · shortages of materials; and · volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. The failure to complete a particular project on schedule or on budget may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations or financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO THE SHOPPING AND ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS BUSINESS, TO THE HOTEL BUSINESS AND TO THE RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS BUSINESS The failure to comply with government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The shopping and entertainment centers business, the hotel business and the residential projects business, are subject to numerous national and local government regulations, including those relating to acquisition of real estate properties, building and zoning requirements and fire safety control. In addition, we are subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and work permit requirements, and in some localities to collective labor agreements. A determination that we are not in compliance with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and significant expenses in bringing our shopping and entertainment centers and hotels into compliance with such regulations. In addition, our ability to dismiss un needed staff may be hampered by local labor laws and courts which traditionally favor employees in disputes with former employers, particularly in countries with strong socialist histories such as those in Eastern Europe. We may be held liable for design or construction defects of third-party contractors. We rely on the quality and timely performance of construction activities by third-party contractors. Claims may be asserted against us by local government and zoning authorities or by third parties for personal injury and design or construction defects. These claims may not be covered by the professional liability insurance of the contractors or of the architects and consultants. These claims may give rise to significant liabilities. 16 Shortages in raw materials and employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The building industry may from time to time experience fluctuating prices and shortages in the supply of raw materials as well as shortages of labor and other materials. The inability to obtain sufficient amounts of raw materials and to retain efficient employees on terms acceptable to us may delay construction and increase the budget of our projects and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Mixed-use projects combine versatile factors affecting individual components, failure of any of which may affect other components and may be detrimental to the mixed-use project. Our shopping and entertainment centers business and the residential projects, include the construction of mixed-use projects. Materialization of a risk specific to an individual component may affect other components of such mixed-use project and thereby the project as a whole. The fair value of our real estate assets may be harmed by certain factors, which may entail impairment losses not previously recorded which, in turn, will affect our financial results. Certain circumstances may affect the fair value of our real estate assets (operating or under construction), including, among other things, (i) the absence of or modifications to permits or approvals required for the construction and/or operation of any real estate asset; (ii) in shopping and entertainment centers - where a significant part of the rental areas is subject to long-term leases with a small group of retailers which is distinguished from other lessees, we may be exposed to a risk of rental fees rates being significantly lower than originally anticipated. A material long term decline in the business operations of such retailers may therefore have an adverse effect on the real estate assets recoverable amount and their final sale prices; (iii) delays in completion of works, beyond the anticipated target, may adversely affect our results of operations; (iv) lawsuits that are pending, whether or not we are a party thereto, may have a significant impact on our real estate assets and/or on certain of our shareholding rights in the companies owning such assets. In addition, certain laws and regulations, applicable to our business in certain countries where the legislation process undergoes constant changes, may be subject to frequent and substantially different interpretations; agreements which may be interpreted by governmental authorities so as to shorten the term of use of real estate, and which may be accompanied with a demolition order with or without compensation, may significantly affect the value of such real estate asset. The fair value of our real estate assets may be significantly decreased, thereby resulting in potential impairment losses not previously recorded in our financial results. Since market conditions and other parameters (such as macroeconomic environment trends, and others), which affect the fair value of our real estate and investments, vary from time to time, the fair value may not be adequate on a date other than the date the measurement was executed (in general, immediately after the balance sheet date). In the event the projected forecasts regarding the future cash flows generated by those assets are not met, we may have to record an additional impairment loss not previously recorded. Environmental discoveries may have a significant impact on the budget, schedule, viability and marketability of a shopping and entertainment center. We may encounter unforeseen construction delays due to factors beyond our control such as delays caused by previously unknown soil contamination or the discovery of archeological findings which may have a significant impact on development budget and schedules and which may, in turn, have a detrimental effect on the viability or marketability of the development. We may be liable for the costs of removal, investigation or remedy of hazardous or toxic substances located on or in a site owned or leased by us, regardless of whether we were responsible for the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of any required removal, investigation or remedy of such substances may be substantial and/or may result in significant budget overruns and critical delays in construction schedules. The presence of such substances, or the fail ure to remedy such substances properly, may also adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the development or to obtain financing using the real estate as security. Additionally, any future sale of the development will be generally subject to indemnities to be provided by us to the purchaser against such environmental liabilities. Accordingly, we may continue to face potential environmental liabilities with respect to a particular property even after such property has been sold. Laws and regulations may also impose liability for the release of certain materials into the air or water from a property, and such release can form the basis for liability to third persons for personal injury or other damages. Other laws and regulations can limit the development of, and impose liability for, the disturbance of wetlands or the habitats of threatened or endangered species. Any environmental issue may significantly increase the cost of a development and/or cause delays, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of that development and our results of operations and cash flows. 17 There is an increasing awareness of environmental issues in CEE. This may be of critical importance in areas where soil pollution may be prevalent. If a property that we acquire turns out to be polluted, such a finding will adversely affect our ability to construct, develop and operate a shopping and entertainment center, a hotel or a residential project on such property, and may cause us to suffer expenses incurred in cleaning up the polluted site which may be significant. RISKS RELATING TO THE IMAGE GUIDED TREATMENT BUSINESS InSightec Ltd., our subsidiary, is currently dependent on sales of the ExAblate for the treatment of uterine fibroids and the sale of research systems for its clinical research. Inability to sell the ExAblate at appropriate prices will results in an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our subsidiary, InSightec Ltd. ("InSightec"), received FDA approval in October 2004 to market the ExAblate in the United States only for the treatment of uterine fibroids. InSightec expects sales of the ExAblate to come from this application and from sales of research systems for the foreseeable future, depending upon the timing of regulatory approval of additional applications for the ExAblate. As a result, factors adversely affecting InSightec’s ability to sell, or pricing of or demand for, InSightec’s product would have a material adverse effect on InSightec's financial condition and results of operations, which would, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. If the ExAblate does not achieve broad market acceptance for the treatment of uterine fibroids, InSightec will not be able to generate sufficient sales to support its business. InSightec must achieve broad market acceptance of the ExAblate for the treatment of uterine fibroids among physicians, patients and third-party payors in order to generate sufficient sales to support its business. Physicians will not recommend the use of the ExAblate unless InSightec can demonstrate that it produces results comparable or superior to existing treatments for uterine fibroids. If long-term patient studies do not support InSightec’s existing clinical results, or if they indicate that the use of the ExAblate has negative side effects on patients, physicians may not adopt or not continue to use the ExAblate. Even if InSightec demonstrates the effectiveness of the ExAblate, physicians may still not use the system for a number of other reasons. Physicians may continue to recommend traditional uterine fibroid treatment o ptions simply because those methods are already widely accepted and are based on established technologies. Patients may also be reluctant to undergo new, less established treatments for uterine fibroids. If, due to any of these factors, the ExAblate does not receive broad market acceptance among physicians or patients, InSightec will not generate significant sales. In this event, InSightec’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be seriously harmed, and InSightec’s ability to develop additional treatment applications for the ExAblate would be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain coverage and sufficient reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. Demand for the ExAblate, for commercial use, is likely to depend substantially on the extent to which sufficient reimbursement for treatment procedures using InSightec’s system will be available from third-party payors, such as private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations and, to a lesser degree, government payor programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region. InSightec believes that third-party payors will not provide reimbursement on a national basis for treatments using the ExAblate, unless InSightec can generate a sufficient amount of data through long-term patient studies to demonstrate that such treatments produce favorable results in a cost-effective manner relative to other treatments. Furthe rmore, InSightec could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of private healthcare or governmental payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement for treatment procedures using the ExAblate. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for treatment procedures using the ExAblate, InSightec may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support its business. 18 InSightec’s future growth substantially depends on its ability to develop and obtain regulatory clearance for additional treatment applications for the ExAblate. InSightec has received regulatory approvals to market the ExAblate in the United States, Israel, Canada, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Korea, Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Japan and the European Union Economic Area ("EEA"), which is comprised of the member nations of the European Union and certain additional European nations, solely for the treatment of uterine fibroids. In addition, in May 2007 InSightec received CE-marking (approval to market in the EEA) and in January 2008 it received Israeli approval for pain palliation of bone metastases. However, clinical experience for the bone metastases application is still in early stages and therefore commercial acceptance is expected to take some time. InSightec’s objective is to expand the use of the ExAblate by developing and introducing new treatment applications. InSightec is currently in various stages of product development and clinical studies for a number of new treatment applications for the ExAblate. It will be required to obtain FDA approval in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before marketing the ExAblate for these additional treatment applications. InSightec cannot guarantee that InSightec’s product development activities for these other applications will be successful and in such event, InSightec’s future growth will be harmed. In particular, InSightec’s future curative oncology treatment applications are subject to significant risks since these applications must be able to demonstrate complete ablation of malignant tumors, or meet or exceed the current medical standard related to the oncology application in question. If InSightec is unable to demonstrate this degree of efficacy, its future curative oncology treatment applications may not prove to be successful. In addition, assuming product d evelopment is successful, the regulatory processes can be lengthy, lasting many years in some cases, and expensive. We cannot assure that FDA approval or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of the ExAblate treatment for additional applications, InSightec is required to conduct extensive clinical studies which may take several years to demonstrate the therapeutic benefits and cost-effectiveness of these new treatment applications and products. Clinical trials are expensive and may take several years to complete. If future clinical trials indicate that the ExAblate is not as beneficial or cost-effective as existing treatment methods, or that such products cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen adverse events, InSightec may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the ExAblate for these additional treatment applications or obtain reimbursement coverage, and InSightec’s long-term growth wo uld be seriously harmed. InSightec is dependent on General Electric. The ExAblate is compatible only with certain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems of GE Healthcare, a division of the General Electric Company (“GE”), which may limit InSightec’s potential market. A significant portion of the MRI systems in use in the United States and elsewhere are not GE MRI systems. InSightec has no current plans to develop a system that would be compatible with MRI systems manufactured by companies other than GE and is, therefore, limited in its target market to potential customers who already own or otherwise have access to a compatible GE MRI system, or are willing to purchase such a system in order to use the ExAblate. In addition, in the event that GE is unable to effectively market its MRI systems, InSightec’s ability to generate additional sales of the ExAblate may be a dversely affected. InSightec depends on its collaboration with GE to ensure the compatibility of the ExAblate with new models of GE MRI systems and upgrades to existing GE MRI systems. GE regularly develops new models of its MRI systems, as well as new capabilities for its existing MRI systems, which could affect their compatibility with the ExAblate. If InSightec is unable to receive information regarding new models of the GE MRI systems or upgrades to existing GE MRI systems, and coordinate corresponding upgrades to the ExAblate to ensure continued compatibility with new and existing GE MRI systems, its ability to generate sales of its system will be adversely affected. In addition, If InSightec is unable to coordinate new applications or upgrades with GE’s research and development team, it may be unable to develop such applications or upgrades in a timely manner and its future revenue growth may be seriously harmed. 19 In addition, GE is not prohibited from marketing or manufacturing other focused ultrasound-based products that may compete with the ExAblate. In the event that GE chooses to distribute or manufacture medical devices that may compete with the ExAblate or other products based on the magnetic resonance guided focused ultrasound surgery ("MRgFUS") technology, InSightec’s sales may be adversely affected. If InSightec is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could be harmed. Third-party claims of infringement could require InSightec to redesign its products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact InSightec’s future business and financial performance. InSightec’s success and ability to compete depends in large part upon its ability to protect its proprietary technology. InSightec relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and on confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, in order to protect its intellectual property rights. A few of InSightec’s patents were transferred to InSightec from GE at the time of its formation, and GE retains a non-exclusive license to make, use and sell products covered under these patents in the imaging field only without InSightec’s permission. Prior to the transfer, GE had entered into cross-license agreements with respect to these patents with a number of companies, including some that may be potential competitors of InSightec. As a result of these cross license agreements, InSightec may n ot be able to enforce these patents against one or more of these companies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that InSightec’s existing or future patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that InSightec’s existing patents, or any patents, which may be issued as a result of existing or future applications, will provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to InSightec. Claims by competitors and other third parties that InSightec products allegedly infringe the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on InSightec’s business. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of InSightec’s technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject InSightec to significant liabilities or require InSightec to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. RISKS RELATING TO THE FASHION APPAREL BUSINESS Each of our fashion retail brands is dependent on one single franchise and supplier which could cause delays or disruptions in the delivery of products, which may harm our business and results of operations. Elbit Trade & Retail Ltd. ("Elbit Trade"), our wholly owned subsidiary, depends on franchises and supply of products from individual suppliers for each of its brands. If such franchises end their relationship with Elbit Trade or enter into liquidation, Elbit Trade’s business in Israel with respect to the products supplied by such supplier will be terminated. In addition, Elbit Trade relies on the supply of its products from such supplier and may face a shortage of inventory if there is a worldwide excess demand for a specific brand’s products. If either of these events occurs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. A rise in wage levels in Israel could adversely affect Elbit Trade’s financial results. Elbit Trade relies mainly on minimum wage employees. From time to time, the Israeli government increases the statutory minimum wage. If wage levels generally, and particularly the minimum wage in Israel, increase, Elbit Trade’s results of operations could be harmed. 20 The apparel industry is subject to changes in fashion preferences. If the manufacturer of products marketed by Elbit Trade misjudges fashion trends, or if Elbit Trade fails to choose from its suppliers’ inventory design products that appeal to our customers, our sales could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Neither our suppliers, nor Elbit Trade may be successful in anticipating and responding to fashion trends in the future. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in part on the ability of our international suppliers to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings far in advance. If they are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market or any new product lines, or if we fail to choose from design products from our suppliers inventory that appeal to our customers’ changing fashion preferences, Elbit Trade’s sales will be lower and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold inventory. As a result, we may be forced t o increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our brand names may also suffer if customers believe merchandise misjudgments indicate that Mango, G-Star, GAP or Banana Republic no longer offer the latest fashions. A change in customs rates and custom and harbor strikes could adversely affect Elbit Trade’s financial results. Elbit Trade is subject to Israeli customs since all of its products are imported. An increase in customs rates on Elbit Trade’s products could adversely affect Elbit Trade’s ability to compete against local manufacturers or with products from countries which enjoy more favorable customs rates in Israel. On the other hand, a reduction in customs rates may encourage entrance penetration of new competitors to the market. In addition, since most of Elbit Trade’s products are imported, custom and harbor strikes and delays could adversely affect Elbit Trade’s ability to meet customer demands in a timely manner and adversely affect Elbit Trade’s financial results. Elbit Trade may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive fashion retail industry, and Elbit Trade’s competitors may have greater financial, geographic and other resources. The sale of fashion retail is highly competitive. Elbit Trade competes directly with a number of Israeli and international brands some of which have longer operating histories and enjoy greater financial and marketing resources than Elbit Trade. For example, as a result of their greater financial and marketing resources, Elbit Trade’s competitors may have the ability to obtain better geographic locations for their stores in shopping and entertainment centers, with better traffic flow and access to customers, which would have a positive impact on their sales. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures or loss of market share to Elbit Trade and adversely affect Elbit Trade’s revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that Elbit Trade will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Elbit Trade relies on its ability to maintain its existing spread of stores and to expand to new locations. Elbit Trade's ability to open new stores depends on the availability of real estate that meets its financial targets. Elbit Trade must also be able to effectively renew its existing store leases in order to maintain its existing footprint in the Israeli market. Failure to secure adequate new locations or to successfully renew existing leases could affect Elbit Trade’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. Elbit Trade has no control over fluctuations in the cost of the raw materials it uses and a rise in costs could harm Elbit Trade profitability. Elbit Trade buys its inventory from international suppliers, which are responsible for the design and manufacturing of all of Elbit Trade’s products. The prices of the inventory that Elbit Trade purchases from such suppliers are dependent on their manufacturing costs. Manufacturing costs are substantially dependent on the prices of raw materials and level of wages in the countries where the products are manufactured. Therefore, an increase in the manufacturing costs will cause an increase in Elbit Trade’s cost of goods sold and Elbit Trade may not be able to pass on the increased costs to its customers. Such increased costs would likely adversely affect Elbit Trade’s profitability, operational results and its financial condition. A devaluation of the NIS against foreign currencies could harm Elbit Trade’s profitability. Elbit Trade buys its entire inventory for each of the brands it markets and sells from international suppliers. The price of this inventory is denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, a devaluation of the NIS against such foreign currencies will cause an increase in Elbit Trade’s cost of goods sold expressed in NIS, and Elbit Trade may not be able to pass the increased costs to its customers. This would likely adversely affect Elbit Trade’s profitability, operational results and its financial conditions. 21 RISKS RELATING TO OUR OTHER ACTIVITIES Our venture capital investments are speculative in nature and we may never realize any revenues or profits from these investments. We cannot be certain that our venture capital investments will result in revenues or profits. Economic, governmental, regulatory and industry factors outside our control affect our venture capital investments. If any one of our venture capital investee companies will not successfully implement its business plan we will not be able to realize any profits from it. Our ability to realize profits from these investments will be dependent upon the management of these companies, the success of its research and development activities, the timing of the marketing of its products and numerous other factors beyond our control. Our operations and investment in shopping and entertainment centers in the United States have only recently commenced and may not succeed. In February 2010 Elbit Plaza USA, L.P., our new subsidiary formed jointly with PC entered into a co-investment agreement with a third party to jointly form and invest in a U.S. real estate investment fund that will focus on investments in the U.S. retail and commercial real estate sectors (the “U.S. Fund”). Elbit Plaza USA, L.P. has undertaken to invest up to an amount of $100 million, which shall be financed by PC and us in equal shares. For additional information regarding the U.S. Fund and recent developments, see "Item 4.B. Business Overview – Other Activities - Shopping and entertainment centers in the United States" below. The U.S. Fund has no operating history upon which investors can evaluate the anticipated performance of the U.S. Fund. Further, the principals of the U.S. Fund have a limited histo ry in managing investments in the U.S. real estate market. We cannot assure that the U.S. Fund’s investments will be successful, that the investment objectives of the U.S. Fund will be realized or that any benefits or advantages to investors will be available or accomplished. There are risks and uncertainties regarding the selection of investments. The business of identifying and structuring real estate transactions is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We cannot assure that the U.S. Fund will be successful in obtaining suitable investments. The U.S. Fund may invest in distressed level projects which could impose high risks upon the U.S. Fund. The U.S. Fund may invest in low grade real estate projects in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial capital needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive problems, including companies involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization and liquidation proceedings. These projects are likely to be particularly risky investments although they also may offer the potential for correspondingly high returns. Among the risks inherent in investments in troubled entities is the fact that it frequently may be difficult to obtain information as to the true condition of such companies. Such investments may also be adversely affected by laws relating to, among other things, fraudulent transactions and other voidable transactions or payments, lender liability and the bankruptcy c ourt’s power to disallow, reduce, subordinate or disenfranchise particular claims. Such companies’ assets may be considered speculative, and the ability of such companies to pay their debts on schedule could be affected by adverse interest rate movements, changes in the general economic climate, economic factors affecting the retail real estate market or specific developments within such companies. Any one or all of the projects in which the U.S. Fund may invest may be unsuccessful or not show any returns for a considerable period of time. The level of analytical sophistication, both financial and legal, necessary for successful investment in companies experiencing significant business and financial difficulties is unusually high. There is no assurance that the U.S. Funds' advisors will correctly evaluate the value of such projects or the prospects for a successful reorganization or similar action. In any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relatin g to a company in which the U.S. Fund invests, the U.S. Fund may lose its entire investment, may be required to accept cash or securities with a value less than the U.S. Fund’s original investment and/or may be required to accept payment over an extended period of time. Under such circumstances, the returns generated from the U.S. Fund’s investments may not compensate us adequately for the risks assumed. 22 In liquidation (both in and out of bankruptcy) and other forms of corporate reorganization, there exists the risk that the reorganization either will be unsuccessful (due to, for example, failure to obtain requisite approvals), will be delayed (for example, until various liabilities, actual or contingent, have been satisfied) or will result in a distribution of cash or a new security, the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the U.S. Fund of the security in respect to which such distribution was made. In certain transactions, the U.S. Fund may not be “hedged” against market fluctuations, or, in liquidation situations, may not accurately value the assets of the company being liquidated. This can result in losses, even if the proposed transaction is consummated. The U.S. Fund intends to be highly leveraged and may as a result incur high financing risks. The U.S. Fund intends to borrow funds to increase its buying power and potential returns to investors. Market conditions may decrease significantly the availability and increase the cost of real estate mortgage loans or other forms of finance. In addition, although leverage will increase the investment return of the U.S. Fund if an investment purchased with borrowed funds earns a greater return than the amount that the U.S. Fund is charged for the use of those funds, the use of leverage will decrease the investment return if the U.S. Fund fails to earn as much on investments purchased with borrowed funds as it is charged for the use of those funds. The use of leverage will also allow the U.S. Fund to borrow in order to make additional investments, thereby increasing its exposure to assets, such that its total ass ets are greater than the aggregate amount of the commitments to the U.S. Fund. The use of leverage will, therefore, magnify the volatility of changes in the value of the investments of the U.S. Fund. Borrowings by the U.S. Fund will be secured by the U.S. Fund's investment portfolio. If the U.S. Fund defaults on indebtedness secured by any or all of the U.S. Fund’s property, the financing party may foreclose and the U.S. Fund may lose its entire investment in such property. Under certain circumstances pursuant to the conditions of a loan, the U.S. Fund may be required to liquidate all or a portion of its investments to pay off the loan. Liquidation under those circumstances could have adverse consequences. Funds borrowed for leveraging will be subject to interest costs that may or may not be recovered by the return on the investment portfolio. The U.S. Fund's investment in Macquarie DDR Trust ("MDT"), an Australian publicly traded trust which holds and manages two U.S. REIT portfolios, is dependent on MDT's successful entitlement offer and other events. As of May 6, 2010, the U.S. Fund has concluded the first two stages in an investment transaction in MDT, namely, a private placement of 141.48 million new units representing 15% pre-placement, and the purchase of 2.6% principal unitholding in MDT. The successful completion of the transaction is dependent on the success of MDT’s entitlement offer and the successful refinancing of MDT’s debt. If these events do not occur on time or in a manner that is satisfactory to us, we may not be able to obtain significant holdings and/or assure the successful refinancing of MDT’s debt, which may have an effect on the financial and operational results of the U.S. Fund. For additional information, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview – Other Activities - Shopping and entertainment centers in the United States.” Failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect a portfolio company’s operations and its ability to make distributions. The advisor of the U.S. Fund intends to operate each portfolio company in a manner designed to permit it to qualify as a real estate investment trust (a "REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, commencing with the taxable year in which an election to be taxable as a REIT is made. The advisor of the U.S. Fund does not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to the REIT status of each portfolio company. A portfolio company’s qualification as a REIT will depend on its satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of vario us factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a portfolio company’s control. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable income tax regulations that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through operating entities, as the U.S. Fund's portfolio companies may hold. Moreover, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of that qualification. 23 If a portfolio company of the U.S. Fund were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a portfolio company’s taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, a portfolio company would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its REIT status. A loss of a portfolio company’s REIT status would mean a reduction in its net earnings available for investment or distribution to us because of the additional tax liability. Additionally, distributions to investors of the U.S. Fund would no longer be deductible in computing a portfolio company’s taxable income and it would no longer be required to make distributions. To the extent that distributions had be en made in anticipation of a portfolio company's qualifying as a REIT, a portfolio company may be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable corporate income tax. Furthermore, although a portfolio company intends to operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause a portfolio company’s board of directors to recommend that a portfolio company revoke its REIT election. Statutory and regulatory requirements in the United States may limit or impose restrictions on our investment opportunities in the United States. Local laws and regulations in the United States will require the consultation of U.S. legal experts, often at considerable expense. The governmental bodies and bureaucracy that exists in the United States (e.g., various authorizations and permits required for building and zoning, length of time for processing applications and filings, etc.) may impose regulatory and operational difficulties affecting the real estate projects in which the U.S. Fund invests. The shopping and entertainment centers business is subject to heavy regulation, including with respect to acquisition of real estate properties, building and zoning requirements and fire safety control. In addition, the U.S. Fund will be subject to laws governing its relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and work permit requirements and possibly collective labor agreements. A determination that the U.S. Fund or its portfolio companies are not in compliance with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants and significant expenses in bringing the U.S. Fund’s shopping and entertainment centers into compliance with the regulations. In addition, the U.S. Fund’s ability to make headcount reductions may be hampered b y labor laws and courts which traditionally favor employees in disputes with former employers. RISKS RELATING TO ISRAEL Security and economic conditions in Israel may affect our operations. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices are located in Israel. In addition, our operations in our other lines of business, such as Elbit Trade and venture capital investments operate in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, various armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 a nd took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in June 2007. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Rocket strikes from Gaza have increased since June 2007, and thousands of rockets have been fired at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas in January 2009. In addition, acts of terrorism, armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect local business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on the region of any diplomatic initiatives or political developments involving Israel or the Palestinians or other countries in the Middle East. 24 Furthermore, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Many of our directors, officers and employees are obligated to perform military reserve duty in Israel. We cannot assess the potential impact of these obligations on our business. Our directors, officers and employees who are male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The deteriorating security situation in the Middle East has caused, and will continue to cause, a sharp increase in the army reserve obligations of our directors, officers and employees who are subject to such reserve duty obligations. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect of any increase or reduction of these requirements on us. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since the majority of our assets and all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities law in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. However, subject to time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, if: · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction, in compliance with due process and the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; · no action between the same parties in the same matter is pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in a U.S. court; and · the U.S. courts are not prohibited from enforcing judgments of the Israeli courts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, which may depress out share price. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the “Companies Law”) generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. 25 The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of us, which could depress our share price. RISKS RELATING TO EASTERN EUROPE We are subject to various risks related to our operations in Eastern Europe, including economic and political instability, political and criminal corruption and the lack of experience and unpredictability of the civil justice system. Many of the Eastern European countries in which we operate are countries which were allied with the former Soviet Union under a communist economic system, and they are still subject to various risks. Certain Eastern European countries, in particular those countries that are not expected to join the European Union in the near future, are still economically and politically unstable and suffer from political and criminal corruption, lack of commercial experience, unpredictability of the civil justice system, land expropriation, changes in taxation legislation or regulation, changes to business practices or customs, changes to laws and regulations relating to currency repatriation and limitations on the level of foreign investment or development. Certain Eastern European countries also continue to suffer from high unemployment, low wages and low literacy rates. These risks could be harmful to us and are very difficult to quantify or predict. Although many governments of Eastern European countries have liberalized policies on international trade, foreign ownership and development, investment, and currency repatriation to increase international trade and investment, such policies might change unexpectedly. We will be affected by the rules and regulations regarding foreign ownership of real and personal property. Such rules may change quickly and dramatically and thus may have an adverse impact on ownership and may result in a loss without recourse of our property or assets. Domestic and international laws and regulations, whether existing today or in the future, could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and could impair our profitability. Certain Eastern European countries may regulate or require governmental approval for the repatriation of investment income, capital or the proceeds of sales of securities by foreign investors. In addition, if there is deterioration in a country’s balance of payments or for other reasons, a country may impose temporary restrictions on foreign capital remittances abroad. Any such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to repatriate investment loans or to remit dividends. Many emerging countries have experienced substantial, and in some periods extremely high, rates of inflation for many years. Inflation and rapid fluctuations in inflation rates have had and may continue to have negative effects on the economies and securities markets of certain emerging countries. In addition, in an attempt to control inflation, price contr ols at our hotels have been imposed at times in certain countries, which may affect our ability to increase our room rates. 26 While we make every effort to conduct thorough and reliable due diligence investigations, in some countries where former communist regimes carried out extensive land expropriations in the past, we may be faced with restitution claims by former land owners in respect of project sites acquired by it. If upheld, these claims would jeopardize the integrity of our title to the land and our ability to develop the land. RISKS RELATING TO INDIA Hostilities in India and other countries in Asia could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. India has from time to time experienced instances of internal terror attacks and hostilities with neighboring countries, including Pakistan and China. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that companies operating in India are usually involved in higher degrees of risk. Events of this nature in the future, as well as social and civil unrest within other countries in Asia or within India, could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest due to religious strife. Changes in the economic policies of the Government of India or political instability could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector and significantly reducing the roles of the state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators. The Indian Government has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization pursued by previous governments. However, this trend of liberalization may not continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies generally affecting foreign investments, currency exchange, repatriation of profits and other matters affecting our investments, as well as specifically affecting the sectors of commercial activity in which we operate, could also change. A significant shift in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could materially adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, as well as our business operations in particular. In addition to potential economical instability, the Indian economy and business practices are relatively new and evolving, and there have been some instances of political and criminal corruption. Furthermore, India continues to suffer from high unemployment, low wages and low literacy rates. These risks could be harmful to us and are very difficult to quantify or predict. Indian governments are democratically elected, but are invariably comprised of a coalition of several political parties. The withdrawal of one or more of these parties from the coalition could cause the government to fall, resulting in political instability or stagnation pending new elections. Such events could delay or even halt the progress and development of the Indian economy and its receptiveness to foreign investment, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Operations in India are a relatively new venue to us and there is no assurance that our skills and experience can be applied successfully in these regions. While we believe that the skills and experiences that we have acquired through sourcing sites and developing and selling shopping and entertainment centers in the emerging markets in CEE can be applied successfully to projects in India or in other countries, this cannot be guaranteed. The differences between emerging markets in CEE and emerging markets in India or other countries, such as differing mentalities, social and business cultures, legal structures and systems, integrity of the courts, and restrictions on foreign ownership of real estate, may mean that our success in developing and selling shopping and entertainment centers in CEE may not be replicated in India or in other countries. 27 Limitations by the Indian government to invest in India may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Under the Indian government's policy on Foreign Direct Investment ("FDI Policy"), an acquisition or investment by us in an Indian sector or activity, in particular in the shopping and entertainment centers business, which does not comply with certain limitations, is subject to governmental approval. With respect to the real estate sector, these limitations include, among other things, a minimum investment and minimum size of built-up land. In addition, under the FDI Policy it is not permitted for foreign investors to acquire agricultural land for real estate development purposes. There is no assurance that we will comply with the limitations prescribed in the FDI Policy in order to not be required to receive governmental approvals. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDI Policy will require us to receive governmental approv als which we may not be able to obtain or which may include limitations or conditions that will make the investment unviable or impossible, and non-compliance with investment restrictions may result in the imposition of penalties. This would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Uncertainty regarding the ownership of land in India may expose us to third party claims in connection with the purchase of land by us which may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. Under the laws of India, the registration of ownership in land with the land registration offices does not automatically guarantee lack of third party rights to such land, particularly with respect of rights which are transferred by inheritance. While we go to considerable lengths to ensure integrity of title in the real estate properties acquired by us, the system of recording ownership and rights in and to immovable property is not conclusive, which may expose us to third party claims in connection with such land. Restrictions on the repatriation of capital in India may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Pursuant to regulations promulgated under the FDI Policy and by the central bank of India, the repatriation of capital with regard to investments made in the real estate sector is subject to strict regulatory procedures, and is restricted during three years commencing on the date of such investment. If we are unable to repatriate capital from our investments in India, in whole or in part, this may have an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results of operations. GENERAL RISKS Conditions and changes in the local and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate can harm our business. Recently, global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. These economic factors include diminished liquidity and tighter credit conditions, leading to decreased credit availability, as well as declines in economic growth and employment levels. Although there are currently signs of improvement in the global economy and in the countries in which we operate, the recession may return. In addition, the scope and effects of the recent economic instability in Europe cannot yet be determined. Partly as a result, entire industries have faced and may be facing extreme contraction and even the prospect of collapse. The credit crisis could have a number of follow-on effects on our business, including a possible: (i) slow-down in our business, resulting from lower consumer expenditure, inability of consumers to pay for products and services, insolvency of consumers or insolvency of key partners, (ii) negative impact on our liquidity, financial condition and share price, which may impact our ability to raise capital in the market, obtain financing and other sources of funding in the future on terms favorable to us, and (iii) decrease in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations and may increase the difficulty for us to accurately forecast and plan future business. 28 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purpose, holders of ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets, averaged quarterly, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we will be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A determination that we are a PFIC could cause our U.S. shareholders to suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gains rates, and being subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares, and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares and could have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. See “Item 10.E. Taxation - Tax consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company” below. We are subject to various legal proceedings that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain legal proceedings have been initiated against us, including litigation in connection with the change of control of us and our subsidiary Elscint Ltd. ("Elscint") in May 1999 and the acquisition of the hotel businesses by Elscint in September 1999, as well as motions to certify certain of such claims as class actions and litigation by an individual who claims to have rights to a percentage in us and certain of our subsidiaries. For details refer to note 23B(3) in our annual consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. A determination against us in some or all of these proceedings, mainly those related to class actions, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant capital needs and additional financing may not be available. The sectors in which we compete are capital intensive. We require substantial up-front expenditures for land acquisition, development and construction costs, certain investments in research and development as well as for the ongoing maintenance of our hotels or operation of our centers. In addition, following construction, additional financing is necessary to maintain the centers in good condition until they are sold. Accordingly, we require substantial amounts of cash and financing for our operations. We cannot be certain that such external financing would be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. During 2008, the world markets experienced a financial crisis, which resulted in lower liquidity in the capital markets. Lower liquidity may result in difficulties to raise additional debt or less favorable interest rate s for such debt. In addition, construction loan agreements generally permit the draw down of the loan funds against the achievement of pre-determined construction and space leasing milestones. If we fail to achieve these milestones, the availability of the loan funds may be delayed, thereby causing a further delay in the construction schedule. If we are not successful in obtaining financing to fund our planned projects and other expenditures, our ability to undertake additional development projects may be limited and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inability to obtain financing may affect our ability to construct or acquire additional shopping centers and hotels, and we may experience delays in planned renovation or maintenance of our hotels that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our quarterly and annual operating results have, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly. These fluctuations may be caused by various factors, particularly due to significant sales of our properties and the frequency of such transactions. As a result of our disposition and acquisition or development of centers, we may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results. If we were in need of cash and financing for our operations at a time when our results were low, this may also have an impact on our ability to fund or successfully obtain financing to fund our planned projects and other expenditures. Our high leverage could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations, including bank debt and notes issued in public offerings to investors in Israel. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes. We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. 29 Our lenders require us to maintain and comply with certain financial and operational covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt instruments or our inability to comply with the required covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of any default under the loan agreements, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees. Furthermore, in the event of any default under the loan agreements, such loans could be reclassified as short-term debt. Such classification in our financial statements may improperly reflect our working capital rati o as well as other financial indicators since the assets which were financed by these loans are classified as non-current assets. As a result of our substantial indebtedness: · we could be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other projects; · we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry; and · we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our business segments with less debt. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We have the ability under our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. If we are subject to a rating downgrade, or a suspension or withdrawal of the rating assigned by a rating agency to our publicly held notes, we may experience increased difficulty in raising debt financing in the future or in refinancing our indebtedness. Our results of operations fluctuate due to the seasonality of our various businesses. Our annual revenues and earnings are substantially dependent upon general business activity, vacation and holiday seasons and the influence of weather conditions. As a result, changes in any of the above have a disproportionate effect on the annual results of operations of our hotels and fashion retail businesses. One of our shareholders beneficially owns a substantial amount of our ordinary shares and, therefore, effectively controls our affairs. As of March 31, 2010, Mordechay Zisser, our Executive President and a director, held, directly and indirectly, approximately 49.55% of our issued share capital. For additional information, see "Item 7.A. Major Shareholders." As a result of such holdings, Mr. Zisser has the ability, in effect, to elect the members of our board of directors and to effectively control our business. A loss of the services of members of our senior management, including in particular, that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations We depend on the continued services of the members of our senior management team, including in particular that of Mr. Mordechay Zisser, our Executive President and a director. Any loss of the services of Mr. Mordechay Zisser or any other member of our senior management team could result in the loss of expertise necessary for us to succeed, which could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our objectives, see "Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Compensation of Directors and Officers – Services of Mr. Mordechay Zisser." 30 Our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate, which may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We have experienced at times in the past, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results which may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. These fluctuations may be caused by various factors, particularly due to significant sales of our properties and the frequency of such transactions. We periodically review our business to identify opportunities for the acquisition, development or sale of new centers and/or hotels. As a result of our disposition and acquisition or development of centers, we may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and that investors should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our share price may drop. 