ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN INTEREST RATE MOVEMENTS MAY IMPACT EARNINGS AND ASSET VALUE. Prior to 2005, interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since December 31, 2004, the prime lending rate has increased from 5.25% to 7.25% at December 31, 2005. Short-term and intermediate-term market interest rates are used as a guide to price the Bank's loans and deposits. The recent increase in such interest rates has had a positive impact on the Bank's interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, as a result of the asset sensitive nature of the Bank's balance sheet. Should short-term interest rates decline dramatically in the near future, and if rates on the Bank's loans and investments reprice downwards faster than the rates on the Bank's deposits and borrowings, the Bank could experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which could have a negative effect on the Bank's profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank's interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank's securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN THE BANK'S MARKET AREA COULD HURT PROFITS AND SLOW GROWTH. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition makes it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has required the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits could result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which could reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits, and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to continue in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank's profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. THE COMPANY AND THE BANK OPERATE IN A HIGHLY REGULATED ENVIRONMENT AND MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC, as its primary federal regulator. The Company also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and by the Commissioner. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company's common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Bank's assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. THE BANK EMPHASIZES COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE, COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND CONSUMER LENDING, WHICH GENERALLY ARE RISKIER THAN RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LENDING. The Bank currently operates as a North Carolina chartered commercial bank. Prior to its conversion to a commercial bank in 1997, the Bank operated as a traditional savings and loan association, primarily emphasizing the origination of loans secured by single-family residences. Upon converting to a commercial bank, the Board of Directors determined there was a local demand for commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans. As a result, the Board of Directors determined to refocus the Bank's strategy. Pursuant to this strategy, while continuing to pursue its existing business of originating single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank took advantage of the business opportunities identified by the Board of Directors by gradually expanding into commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending. In furtherance of this strategy, the Bank recruited experienced commercial real estate and consumer loan and consumer lending officers and developed commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loan products. As a result of these efforts over the years, at December 31, 2005, the Company had commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans totaling $570.5 million, $38.5 million and $100.5 million, respectively, which represented 71.4%, 4.8% and 12.6%, respectively, of total loans. As December 31, 2005, $77.6 million, or 9.7% of total loans, consisted of residential real estate mortgage loans. 28 While commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, they generally carry a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate lending entails significant additional risks as compared with single-family residential property lending. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. The payment experience on such loans typically is dependent on the successful operation of the real estate project, retail establishment or business. These risks can be significantly affected by supply and demand conditions in the market for office, retail and residential space, and, as such, may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy generally. To minimize these risks, the Bank generally limits itself to its market area or to borrowers with which it has prior experience or who are otherwise known to the Bank. It has been the Bank's policy to obtain annual financial statements of the business of the borrower or the project for which commercial real estate loans are made. In addition, in the case of commercial mortgage loans made to a partnership of a corporation, the Bank seeks, whenever possible, to obtain personal guarantees and annual financial statements of the principals of the partnership or corporation. Commercial business loans are often larger and may involve greater risk than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependant on successful operation of the business involved, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy. The Bank will seek to minimize these risks through its underwriting guidelines, which may require certain safeguards, such as the loan be supported by adequate cash flow of the borrower, profitability of the business, collateral and personal guarantees of the individual in the business. In addition, the Bank generally limits this type of lending to its market area and to borrowers with whim it has prior experience or who are otherwise well known to the Bank. Consumer loans entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans which are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciable assets. Repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and this are more likely to be adversely affected by events such as job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. See "Business of the Bank - Lending Activities - Consumer and Other Lending." THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDANT ON THE ECONOMY IN THE BANK'S MARKET AREA. The Bank's market area consists of central, eastern, northeastern and southeastern North Carolina, where the Bank's offices are located. As of December 31, 2005, management estimates that more than 95% of deposits and 90% of loans came from its primary market area. Because of the Bank's concentration of business activities in its primary market area, the Company's financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in its market area. PROVISIONS IN THE COMPANY'S CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS AND STATUTORY PROVISIONS COULD DISCOURAGE A HOSTILE ACQUISITION OF CONTROL. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage nonnegotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; restrictions on the acquisition of the Company's equity securities; and provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company's equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional shares of Common Stock up to a total of 25,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. 29 In addition, Virginia law provides for certain restrictions an acquisition of the Company, and federal and North Carolina laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of banks and their holding companies. The Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaw and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in the Company's and the Bank's employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 