ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, other reports to be filed by us with the SEC, press releases made by us and other public statements by our officers, oral and written, contain or will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including those relating to the possible or assumed future results of operations and financial condition. Because those statements are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Listed below are risks associated with an investment in our securities that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We compete with other third-party providers on the basis of the technological features, capabilities and price of our products and services, and we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new business if we do not keep pace with technological changes and offer competitive pricing for our products and services. The markets for our products and services are competitive, continually evolving and subject to technological change. We believe that key competitive factors in the markets we serve include the breadth and quality of system and software solution offerings, the stability of our information systems, the features and capabilities of the product and service offerings, the pricing of our products and services, and the potential for future product and service enhancements. Our success depends upon our ability to keep pace with technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new and enhanced software solutions and services that satisfy changing client requirements. If we do not keep pace with technological changes, we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new business. Likewise, technology products and services can become more price sensitive over time, and if we are not able to maintain price competitive products and services, we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. The impact of not keeping pace with technological changes or maintaining competitive pricing could adversely affect our results of operations. Security problems with our systems, software products or services, including the improper disclosure of personal or corporate data, could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers, cause increased cybersecurity protection costs and general service costs, and result in liability and increased expense for litigation and diversion of management time. We store and process large amounts of our customers' confidential information and personally identifiable information. Our software products enable our customers to store and process personal data and confidential information. We have included security features in our products and processes that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of data, including confidential client or consumer data. Security is critical given the confidential nature of the information contained in our systems. It is possible that our security controls, our selection and training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers and subject us to liability in regulatory proceedings and private litigation under laws that protect personal data, resulting in loss of revenue or increased costs. Improper disclosure of personal or corporate data could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings alleging damages, and perceptions that our products and services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information and could inhibit sales of our products and services. Defending these types of claims could result in increased expenses for litigation and claims settlement and a significant diversion of our management's attention. Additionally, our software products, the systems on which the products are used, and our processes may not be impervious to intentional break-ins ("hacking"), cyber-attacks or other disruptive disclosures or problems, whether as a result of inadvertent third-party action, employee action, malfeasance, or otherwise. Hacking, cyber-attacks or other disruptive problems could result in the diversion of our 7 Table of Contents development resources, damage to our reputation, increased cybersecurity protection costs and general service costs and impaired market acceptance of our products and services, any of which could result in lower revenues or higher expenses. Errors or fraud related to our business processes could cause increased expense for litigation and diversion of management attention. We administer claims, disburse funds, generate and distribute legal notices, provide data productions and provide professional services for third parties. Errors or fraud could occur, for example, in the payment of bankruptcy or settlement claims in a case we are administering. Errors or fraud related to the processing or payment of these claims or errors related to the delivery of professional services could result in the diversion of management resources, damage to our reputation, increased service costs or impaired market acceptance of our services, any of which could result in higher expenses and lower revenues. Additionally, these types of errors or fraud could result in lawsuits alleging damages. Defending these types of claims could result in increased expenses for litigation and claims settlement and a significant diversion of our management's attention. Interruptions or delays in service at the data centers we utilize could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We provide services through computer hardware that is located in data centers operated by unrelated third parties. We do not control the operation of these facilities, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide, and they are subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures and similar events. These facilities are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. The occurrence of any of these events, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in interruptions in certain of our services. In addition, the failure by our vendor to provide our required data communications capacity could result in poor service or interruptions in our service. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems or services could reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their agreements with us and adversely affect our ability to secure business in the future. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Releases of new software products or upgrades to our existing software products or licensed third-party software may have undetected errors, or may not operate as intended or achieve our customer's desired objectives, which could cause litigation claims against us, damage to our reputation, or loss of business. Certain of our services utilize software solutions developed by us or third parties for the needs of our customers. New releases of software products are issued to our customers periodically. Complex software products, such as those we offer, can contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released, or may fail to operate as intended or achieve the customer's desired objectives. Any introduction of new software products or upgrade to existing software products has a risk of undetected errors. These undetected errors may be discovered only after a product has been installed and used either in our internal processing or by our customers. Likewise, the software products we acquire in business acquisitions have a risk of undetected errors. Any undetected errors, difficulties in installing and maintaining our software products or upgrade releases, difficulties training customers and their staffs on the utilization of new software products or upgrade releases, or the failure to achieve the customer's desired objectives, may result in a delay or loss of revenue, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, the loss of that customer, loss of future business, increased service costs, potential litigation claims against us, or impaired market acceptance of our products. 8 Table of Contents We rely on third-party hardware and software, which could cause errors or failures of our software or services. We rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties for our service offerings. The hardware is typically standardized hardware from national vendors. The software licenses are generally standardized, commercial software licenses from national software vendors. We are generally able to select from a number of competing hardware and software applications, and, from time to time, we have changed the hardware and software technologies incorporated into our software products and solutions. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software incorporated into our products could result in a failure of our service or errors in our software, which in turn could adversely affect our customer relationships and result in the loss of customers, the loss of future business, potential litigation claims against us, and damage to our reputation. Upgrades and implementation of the Company's financial, operating and information systems may adversely affect our business or the results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If the Company's systems do not operate as intended, it could adversely affect financial, operating and information systems, our ability to produce financial and operational reports, and/or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, our information systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to our international operations. In addition, our systems may require modification to enable us to comply with changing regulatory requirements, which could be expensive to implement and may divert management's attention from other key initiatives. In addition, our operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to timely or effectively modify our systems as necessary. We depend upon our key personnel, and we may not be able to retain them or to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees in the future. Our future success may depend upon the continued service of our senior management and certain of our key technical personnel and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, and sales and marketing personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, President, or Chief Financial Officer. We maintain key-man life insurance policies on our Chief Executive Officer and our President. The loss of the services of any senior executives or other key personnel, including key sales professionals, or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The integration of acquired businesses is time consuming, may distract our management from our other operations, may not be effective, and can be expensive, all of which could reduce or eliminate our expected earnings. We have acquired businesses in the past and we may consider opportunities in the future to acquire other companies, assets or product lines that complement or expand our business. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with our existing operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions to our operations. A difficult or unsuccessful integration of an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from companies or businesses we acquire include those associated with: •unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired business; 9 Table of Contents •conforming standards, processes, systems, procedures and controls of the acquired business with our operations; •increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; •difficulties in transferring processes and know-how; •difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns to the acquired business; and •adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. We have international business operations, which subjects us to additional risks associated with these international operations. We have international operations with offices in London, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tokyo and Toronto primarily related to our eDiscovery business. We could continue to expand internationally by entering into other world markets. It requires management attention and financial resources to develop successful global operations. In addition, new operations in geographies we may enter may not be immune from possible government monitoring or intrusion. Global operations are subject to additional inherent risks, including certain risks that are not present with our domestic operations, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include: •difficulties and costs in recruiting effective management for international operations; •foreign certification, licensing and regulatory requirements, which may be substantially more complex or burdensome than our domestic requirements; •unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; •risk associated with selecting or terminating partners for foreign expansions, including marketing agents, distributors or other strategic partners for particular markets; •changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; •risk associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •consequences from changes in applicable international tax laws; •risk associated with local ownership and/or investment requirements, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; •political and economic instability, national calamities, war, and terrorism; •reduced protection of confidential consumer information in some countries; and •different or additional functionality requirements for our software and services. Our intellectual property is not protected through patents or formal copyright registration. Therefore, we do not have the full benefit of patent or copyright laws to prevent others from replicating our software. Our intellectual property rights are not protected through patents or formal copyright registration. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets or prevent others from independently developing substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or from otherwise gaining access to our trade secrets. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringements. Litigation of this nature could result in substantial expense for 10 Table of Contents us and diversion of management and other resources, which could result in a loss of revenue and profits. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plan, and could require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, certain customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our service to others, which could result in a loss of revenues and profits. Future government legislation or changes in court rules could adversely affect our operating results. Our products and services are not directly regulated by the government. Both of our reportable segments and the customers served by those segments are, however, directly or indirectly affected by federal and state laws and regulations and court rules. For example, bankruptcy reform legislation, class action and tort reform legislation and amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure regarding discovery of "electronically stored information" have all affected our customers, and indirectly, our business segments. Future federal or state legislation or court rules, or court interpretations of those laws and rules, could adversely affect the markets we serve and thus could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Goodwill and intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The carrying value of our goodwill was approximately $404.3 million, or approximately 54% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2013. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis at a reporting unit level. Goodwill is assessed between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Our impairment reviews require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates. Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a different organization level, could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairment of goodwill based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in our stock price and market capitalization or unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Impairment of goodwill could result in material charges that could, in the future, result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the current economic environment and the uncertainties regarding the impact that future economic consequences will have on our reporting units, there can be no assurances that our estimates and assumptions regarding the duration of the economic recession, or the period or strength of recovery, made for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment test, will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding forecasted revenues or margins of certain of our reporting units are not achieved, we may be required to record goodwill impairment losses in future 11 Table of Contents periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment loss would occur, and if it does occur, whether such charge would be material. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. If they do, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly revenues and operating results can be difficult to forecast. Our business will continue to be affected by a number of factors, any one of which could substantially affect our results of operations for a particular fiscal quarter. Specifically, our quarterly results from operations can vary due to: •the initiation or termination of a large engagement; •the timing, size, cancellation or rescheduling of customer orders; •fluctuations in short-term interest rates; •unanticipated technology or other expenses; •changes in financial accounting and reporting standards, interpretations or positions that govern the preparation of our financial statements; and •unexpected legal or regulatory expenses. It is possible that our future quarterly results from operations from time to time will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause a material decrease in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile even if our quarterly results do not fluctuate significantly. Even if we report stable or increased earnings, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. There are a number of factors, beyond earnings fluctuations, that can affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: •the average daily trading volume of our stock is low compared to total outstanding shares; •a decrease in market demand for our stock; •downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; •announcements of technological innovations or new product or services offerings developed by us or our competitors; •legal proceedings; •the degree of customer acceptance of new products or enhancements offered by us; and •general market conditions and other economic factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and this is likely to continue. We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future and our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Certain provisions in our credit facility may restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. 12 Table of Contents Subject to any financial covenants in current or future financing agreements that directly or indirectly restrict the payment of dividends, the payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board and will depend upon our future earnings and cash flow from operations, our capital requirements, our financial condition and any other factors that the Board may consider. Unless we continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon its future appreciation. Our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. We have debt covenants in our credit facility agreement that require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios and other requirements. If we are not able to maintain compliance with these requirements, all of our then-outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable. We have a $400.0 million senior secured credit facility consisting of a senior revolving loan and a senior secured term loan (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility contains a financial covenant related to a net leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) which is not permitted to exceed 4.50 to 1.00 as well as other customary covenants related to limitations on (i) creating liens, debt, guarantees or other contingent obligations, (ii) engaging in mergers, acquisitions and consolidations, (iii) paying dividends or other distributions to, and redeeming and repurchasing securities from, equity holders, (iv) prepaying, redeeming or repurchasing subordinated or junior debt, and (v) engaging in certain transactions with affiliates, in each case, subject to customary exceptions. As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all covenants. The Credit Facility contains certain mandatory prepayment terms, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, based on excess cash flow as defined in the Credit Facility as including Consolidated EBITDA adjusted for capital expenditures, interest paid, income taxes paid, principal payments, and certain acquisition-related payments. The Credit Facility also includes customary events of default, including, without limitation, failure to pay principal, interest or fees when due, if any representation or warranty made by us under the Credit Facility shall prove to be untrue in any material respect, a failure to comply with covenants, a default under any of our other indebtedness, invalidity of the Credit Facility or other documents delivered by us pursuant thereto, the occurrence of certain material judgments, certain insolvency or receivership events affecting our Company or any of our subsidiaries, certain liabilities under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, the occurrence of certain environmental claims, the occurrence of a change in control of our Company or the invalidity of subordination provisions with respect to our subordinated debt. The amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Facility. While we do not presently expect to be in violation of any of these requirements, no assurances can be given that we will be able to remain in compliance. There can be no assurance that our actual financial results will match our projected results or that we will not violate such covenants. Any failure to continue to comply with such requirements could materially adversely affect our borrowing ability and access to liquidity, and thus our overall financial condition. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. The variable interest rates applicable to borrowings under our Credit Facility would expose us to adverse changes in interest rates in a rising interest rate environment. When and to the extent appropriate, we use derivative financial instruments as part of our financial risk management strategy to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. In November 2013, as required by our Credit Facility, we entered into a two-year 3% interest rate cap agreement for a notional amount of $150,000,000 equal to the portion of the senior secured term loan being hedged. As of December 31, 2013, the hedge was determined to be highly effective and is expected to continue to be highly effective in mitigating the risks of rising interest rates. There are currently no other hedging relationships in place beyond this two-year arrangement. There is no assurance that our financial risk management strategy will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. 13 Table of Contents Future sales of equity or debt securities could dilute existing shares. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The issuance of additional common stock and/or preferred stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our common stock held by existing stockholders. As of February 7, 2014, there were 35,652,732 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Any future issuances of our common stock would similarly dilute the relative ownership interest of our current stockholders, and could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our articles of incorporation and Missouri law contain provisions that could be used by us to discourage or prevent a takeover of our Company. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to certain shareholders. For example, our articles of incorporation include "blank check" preferred stock provisions, which permit our Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. In conjunction with the issuance of a series of preferred stock, the Board is authorized to fix the rights of that series, including voting rights, liquidation preferences, conversion rights and redemption privileges. The Board could issue a series of preferred stock to a friendly investor and use one or more of these features of the preferred stock to discourage or prevent a takeover of the Company. Additionally, our articles of incorporation do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Cumulative voting, if available, would enable minority shareholders to elect one or more representatives to the Board in certain circumstances, which could be used by third parties to facilitate a takeover of our Company that was opposed by our Board or management. In addition, the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, under which we are incorporated, provides that any merger involving the Company must be approved by the holders of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote on the merger. Presently, our only outstanding voting securities are our shares of common stock. Accordingly, shareholders with voting power over as little as one-third of our outstanding common stock could block a merger proposal, even if that merger proposal were supported by our Board or shareholders holding a majority of our then outstanding shares of common stock. General economic conditions and the cyclical nature of certain markets we serve may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy, which impacts these markets. Any sustained weakness in demand for our products and services resulting from a downturn of or uncertainty in the global economy or in any specific market we serve may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, any decrease in litigation filings, class action proceedings and settlement administrations or bankruptcy filings may reduce the demand for our products and services in our Bankruptcy and Settlement Administration segment and Technology segment. Specifically, our Bankruptcy and Settlement Administration segment has in the past experienced decreased operating revenues as a result of declines in the number of new bankruptcy cases. We expect the trend of decreased bankruptcy filings to continue into 2014, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 