Risk Factors – General Risk Related to Our Business and Market.) At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding buy-back obligations totaling approximately $784 million that extend through 2020. Non-GAAP Financial Data The following non-GAAP financial data is presented to enable investors to have additional information on our business performance as well as a further basis for periodical comparisons and trends relating to our financial results. We believe such data provides useful information to investors by facilitating more meaningful comparisons of our financial results over time. Such non-GAAP information is used by our management to make strategic decisions, forecast future results and evaluate our current performance. However, investors are cautioned that, unlike financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP measures may not be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies. 63 The non-GAAP financial data below includes reconciliation adjustments regarding non-GAAP gross profit, operating income, net income and diluted EPS. In arriving at non-GAAP presentations, companies generally factor out items such as those that have a non-recurring impact on the income statements, various non-cash items, significant effects of retroactive tax legislation and changes in accounting guidance and other items which, in management’s judgment, are items that are considered to be outside the review of core operating results. In our non-GAAP presentation below, we made the following adjustments: (1) amortization of purchased intangible assets, (2) significant reorganization, restructuring and other related expenses, (3) impairment of investments, including impairment of ARS, (4) gain from changes in holdings, including revaluation of the previously held shares at the acquisition date when a business combination is achieved in stages (step-up) and (5) the income tax effects of the foregoing. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as replacements for or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliation of GAAP (Audited) to Non-GAAP (Unaudited) Supplemental Financial Data (U.S. dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 GAAP gross profit 797.9 849.5 767.4 Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 25.0 22.2 28.9 Reorganization, restructuring and other related expenses(1) 12.8 - - Non-GAAP gross profit 835.7 871.7 796.3 Percent of revenues 31.3 % 30.8 % 30.2 % GAAP operating income 207.4 262.5 249.0 Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 47.7 44.0 40.1 Reorganization, restructuring and other related expenses(1) 16.4 - 1.0 Impairment of investments(2) 1.3 1.4 - Gain from changes in holdings(3) (4.8 ) - - Non-GAAP operating income 268.0 307.9 290.1 Percent of revenues 10.0 % 10.9 % 11.0 % GAAP net income attributable to Elbit Systems’ shareholders 183.5 214.9 204.2 Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 47.7 44.0 40.1 Reorganization, restructuring and other related expenses(1) 16.4 - 1.0 Impairment of investments(2) 1.3 1.4 29.2 Gain from changes in holdings(3) (17.6 ) (1.0 ) (100.0 ) Related tax benefits (8.9 ) (9.0 ) 16.8 Non-GAAP net income attributable to Elbit Systems’ shareholders 222.4 250.3 191.3 Percent of revenues 8.3 % 8.8 % 7.3 % Non-GAAP diluted net EPS 5.1 5.8 4.5 ___________________________ (1) Adjustment of reorganization, restructuring and other related expenses in 2010 were mainly due to write-off of inventories in the amount of approximately $13 million related to the acquisitions of Soltam and ITL. (2) Adjustment of gain from changes in holdings in 2010 and 2009 were due to the impairment of ICI shares and in 2008 were due to impairment of ARS ($18.7 million) and the impairment of Sandel shares ($10.5 million). (3) Adjustment of gain from changes in holdings includes the income from the sale of Mediguide shares ($100 million in 2008, $1 million in 2009 and $12.6 million in 2010) and a gain of $4.8 million from a "step-up" in an investment in 2010. 64 Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Executive Officers Board of Directors (Board) Our directors as of February 28, 2011 are as follows: Name Age Director Since Michael Federmann (Chairman) 67 2000 Moshe Arad 76 2005 Avraham Asheri 73 2000 Rina Baum 65 2001 David Federmann 36 2007 Yigal Ne’eman 69 2004 Yehoshua Gleitman (External Director) 61 2010 Dov Ninveh 63 2000 Dalia Rabin (External Director) 60 2010 ____________ The term of office of each director, other than the External Directors, expires at the annual general shareholders meeting to be held during 2011. The term of office for Yehoshua Gleitman as an External Director expires in March 2013, and the term of office for Dalia Rabin as an External Director expires in November 2013. Michael Federmann. Michael Federmann has served as chairman of the Board since 2000. He has held managerial positions in the Federmann Group since 1969, and since 2002 he has served as chairman and CEO of Federmann Enterprises Ltd. (FEL). Currently, he also serves as chairman of the board of directors of Dan Hotels Corp. Ltd. (Dan Hotels). Mr. Federmann is chairman of the board of governors of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (the Hebrew University). He serves as the president of the Israel - Germany Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science from the Hebrew University. Moshe Arad. Moshe Arad served as vice president for external relations of the Hebrew University from 1994 to 2004. He currently serves as the chairman of the board of trustees of The Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace of The Hebrew University and is a director of Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. and the Israeli branch of the Mandel Foundation of Cleveland, Ohio. From 1994 to 1999, he was a member of the board of directors of Elbit Ltd. During 1992 and 1993, Mr. Arad served as director general of the Israel Ministry of Communications. From 1990 to 1992, he was a member of the Tel-Aviv law firm of Herzog, Fox, Ne’eman. Mr. Arad served as Israel’s ambassador to the United States from 1987 to 1990 and as Israel’s ambassador to Mexico from 1983 to 1987. Ambassador Arad holds a bachelor’s degree in political science and international relations and an L.L.B. degree from the Hebrew University. Mr. Arad serves on the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board. Avraham Asheri. Avraham Asheri has served as an economic advisor and a director of several companies since 1998. He currently serves on the boards of directors of Elron Electronic Industries Ltd., Discount Mortgage Bank Ltd., Koor Industries Ltd., Mikronet Ltd. and Radware Ltd. Mr. Asheri was president and chief executive officer of Israel Discount Bank from 1991 until 1998, and executive vice president and member of its management committee from 1983 until 1991. Prior to that, he served for 23 years at the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade and at the Israel Ministry of Finance, including as director general of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade, managing director of the Israel Investment Center and Trade Commissioner of Israel to the United States. Mr. Asheri holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science from the Hebrew University. Mr. Asheri serves as chairman of the Audit Committee, chairman of the Compensation Committee and as a member of the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. He is considered by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise under the Companies Law. Rina Baum. Rina Baum is vice president for investments of FEL and since 1986 has served as director and general manager of Unico Investment Company Ltd. She serves as a director of Dan Hotels, Etanit Building Products Ltd. and Incotec Ltd., as well as in other managerial positions within the Federmann Group. She also serves as a director in Harel-PIA Mutual Funds Management Company Ltd. Mrs. Baum holds an L.L.B. degree from the Hebrew University. 65 David Federmann. David Federmann has served in various management capacities in FEL since 2000. He currently serves as chairman of the board of Freiberger Compound Materials GmbH (Freiberger) in Freiberg, Germany and as a member of the boards of directors of Dan Hotels and BGN Technologies (the technology transfer company of Ben-Gurion University). David Federmann is the son of Michael Federmann, chairman of the Board. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and philosophy from New York University. Dr. Yehoshua Gleitman (External Director). Dr. Yehoshua (Shuki) Gleitman has served since 2001 as the managing partner of Platinum VC, a venture capital firm. He currently serves as chairman of the board of directors of Widemed Ltd. and of Capital Point Ltd. and is a director of Teuza – A Fairchild Technology Venture Ltd. From 2000 until 2005, he was the chief executive officer and a director of SFKT Ltd. From 1997 until 1999, Dr. Gleitman was the chief executive officer of Ampal-American Israel Corporation. Prior to that he served in various senior management positions in the Israeli Government and in Israeli industry, including as director general and chief scientist of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade, chairman of the U.S.-Israel Industrial R&D Foundation, joint chairman of the U.S.-Israel Science and Technology Commission, managing director of AIMS Ltd., vice president and general manager of Elop Electro-Optic Industries Ltd.’s (Elop) marine and aerial operations and head of the Laser Branch of the Israel Ministry of Defense. Dr. Gleitman serves as the honorary consul general of Singapore to Israel, is chairman of the executive board of Holon Institute of Technology and is a member of the executive board of Tel-Aviv University. Dr. Gleitman holds bachelors of science, master of science and PhD degrees in physical chemistry from the Hebrew University. Dr. Gleitman serves as chairman of the Financial Statements Review Committee, chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and as a member of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board. He is considered by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise under the Companies Law. Yigal Ne’eman. Yigal Ne’eman has served as the general manager of the Academic College of Israel in Ramat Gan since 2010. From 1994 to 2010, he served as the chairman and president of the Israel College. From 1989 to 1993, he served as chairman and as a shareholder of several industrial, commercial and service companies. Mr. Ne’eman served as the president and CEO of Tadiran Ltd (Tadiran) from 1981 to 1989. During that period he also served as chairman of the board of directors of Elisra Electronic Systems Ltd. and of Elop. Prior to that he held a number of management positions in the control and finance departments of Tadiran. Mr. Ne’eman completed his accounting studies at the Hebrew University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Ne’eman serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. He is considered by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise under the Companies Law. Dov Ninveh. Dov Ninveh has served as chief financial officer and a manager in FEL since 1994. He serves as a director of Dan Hotels and Etanit Ltd. and as a member of the board of Freiberger. Mr. Ninveh served as a director of Elop from 1996 until 2000. From 1989 to 1994, he served as deputy general manager of Etanit Building Products Ltd. Mr. Ninveh holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and management from the Israel Institute of Technology (the Technion). Dalia Rabin (External Director). Dalia Rabin has served since 2002 as the chairperson of the Yitzhak Rabin Center, a national institute dedicated to ensuring that former Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Yitzhak Rabin’s legacy continues to impact Israeli society through experiential educational programming, a national archive and a museum. Mrs. Rabin was a member of the Israeli Government from 1999 until 2002. She was elected to the Knesset as a member of the Center Party in 1999 and served as chairperson of the Ethics Committee. She also served on the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee; the Committee for the Advancement of the Status of Women; the State Control Committee; and the Committee for the Advancement of the Status of the Child. In 2001, Mrs. Rabin was appointed Deputy Minister of Defense. She resigned in 2002 to head the Rabin Center. Prior to her election to the Knesset, Mrs. Rabin served as the legal advisor of the professional associations of the General Federation of Labor (the Histadrut). She also served for 14 years in the Tel-Aviv District Attorney’s Office in the Civil Division, specializing in labor law. Mrs. Rabin holds an L.L.B. degree from Tel-Aviv University. Mrs. Rabin serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. 66 Executive Officers Our executive officers as of February 28, 2011 are as follows: Name Age Position Joseph Ackerman 61 President and Chief Executive Officer Elad Aharonson 37 Executive Vice President and General Manager – UAS Division David Block Temin 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer Guy Brill 59 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division Adi Dar 39 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Electro-Optics Elop Division Itzhak Dvir 63 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jacob Gadot 63 Executive Vice President – International Marketing and Business Development Ran Galli 62 Executive Vice President – Strategic and Security Initiatives Joseph Gaspar 62 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Zeev Gofer 58 Executive Vice President – Strategic and Business Development - North America Dalia Gonen 59 Executive Vice President – Human Resources Ran Hellerstein 60 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division Raanan Horowitz 50 President and Chief Executive Officer – Elbit Systems of America Bezhalel Machlis 47 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I Division Ilan Pacholder 56 Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions, Offset and Financing Marco Rosenthal 63 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division Haim Rousso 64 Executive Vice President – Engineering and Technology Excellence Gideon Sheffer 62 Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning and Business Development – Israel Yoram Shmuely 50 Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division Udi Vered 52 Executive Vice President – Service Solutions Joseph Ackerman. Joseph Ackerman was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer in 1996. From 1996 to 2004, he served as a member of our Board. From 1994 to 1996, he served as senior vice president and general manager of Elbit Ltd.’s defense systems division. Mr. Ackerman joined Elbit Ltd. in 1982 and held various management positions, including general manager – EFW, senior vice president – operations, vice president – operations and vice president – advanced battlefield systems. He serves as chairman or as a director on the boards of many of our affiliated companies. Mr. Ackerman holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Technion and was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Technion. Elad Aharonson. Elad Aharonson was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – UAS Division in January 2011, after serving as vice president – UAV systems since 2009. He joined Elbit Systems in 2004 and held various senior program management positions relating to UAS. Prior to that, Mr. Aharonson served as an officer in the IDF holding command positions in the Artillery Branch and in the Ground Forces’ UAV unit. Mr. Aharonson holds an L.L.B. degree in law and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the Hebrew University. 67 David Block Temin. David Block Temin was appointed as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer in 2008, after serving as corporate vice president since 2000 and as general counsel since 1996. From 1987 to 1996 he was a legal advisor to Elbit Ltd. Prior to that, Mr. Block Temin was an attorney with law firms in New York City. Mr. Block Temin received a juris doctor degree as well as a master of arts degree in international relations from Stanford University and holds a bachelor of arts degree in political science from the University of Maryland. He is admitted to the Israeli and New York bars. Guy Brill. Guy Brill was appointed as an Executive Vice President in 2008 and has served as Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division since 2005. He became a corporate vice president in 2005. From 2001 until 2005, he served as corporate vice president – business synergy of Elbit Systems U.S. Corp., a U.S. subsidiary of the Company. Prior to that he held various management positions including Elbit Systems’ chief operating officer, co-manager of the C3 and battlefield information systems strategic business unit, vice president for processes improvement and quality and vice president and division manager of the command and control systems division. Mr. Brill joined Elbit Ltd. in 1985. Prior to that, Mr. Brill served in the IDF in the R&D branch of the Ground Forces, and as an artillery officer, where he holds the rank of colonel (reserves). Mr. Brill holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. He is also a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program. Adi Dar. Adi Dar was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – Electro-Optics Elop Division in 2009. From 2006 until his current appointment he served as Elop’s vice president for business development. Prior to that he served in a number of management positions in Elbit Systems, which he joined in 2002. From 1999 until 2002, he was vice president for business development and marketing at Elron Telesoft Ltd. Mr. Dar holds a bachelors degree in industrial engineering from the Technion and an MBA from Tel-Aviv University. Itzhak Dvir. Itzhak Dvir was appointed as an Executive Vice President in 2008 and has served as Chief Operating Officer since 2004. From June to December 2010, he also served as general manager (acting) of the UAS Division. He was appointed as a corporate vice president in 2000. Mr. Dvir served as general manager – UAV, tactical and security systems from 2003 until 2004. From 2000 through 2002, he was general manager – C4I and battlefield systems. From 1996 until 2000, he was vice president and division manager – UAV and C3 division. Mr. Dvir joined Elbit Ltd. in 1989 and held various management positions, including vice president – UAV division, vice president – advance battlefield systems division and marketing director – battlefield systems division. Prior to that he served as a career officer in the IAF, retiring with the rank of colonel. Mr. Dvir holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Technion and a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. Jacob Gadot. Jacob Gadot was appointed as Executive Vice President – International Marketing and Business Development in 2009. From 2008 until his current appointment he was executive vice president – mergers and acquisitions, after serving as corporate vice president – mergers and acquisitions since 2000. He also served as chief technology officer from 2001 until 2005. Mr. Gadot held the position of vice president – mergers and acquisitions from 1998 to 2000 and vice president – business development from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Gadot joined Elbit Ltd. in 1983 and held various management positions, including vice president – international marketing and head of the airborne division. Prior to that, he worked for Motorola Israel, after serving for ten years as an officer in the IAF. Mr. Gadot holds a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the Technion. Ran Galli. Ran Galli was appointed as Executive Vice President – Strategic and Security Initiatives in 2009. From 2008 until his current appointment he was executive vice president – strategic initiatives, after serving as corporate vice president – strategic initiatives since 2005. He served as corporate vice president – major campaigns from 2003 until 2005. From 1999 until 2003 he served as corporate vice president – business development and marketing. Mr. Galli joined Elbit Systems in 1997 as vice president – business development. Prior to that, he served as corporate vice president – business development and marketing at Rafael, which he joined in 1990, after retiring from the IAF with the rank of colonel. In the IAF he served as head of research and development, following numerous aircraft program management positions. Mr. Galli holds bachelor and master of science degrees in aeronautical engineering from the Technion. 68 Joseph Gaspar. Joseph Gaspar was appointed as an Executive Vice President in 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer in 2001. He was appointed as a corporate vice president in 2000 and served as corporate vice president – strategy, technology and subsidiaries from 2000 until 2001. From 1996 until 2000, he held the position of corporate vice president, marketing and business development of Elop. Mr. Gaspar joined Elop in 1975 and held several management positions, including vice president and general manager of Elop’s optronics product division and co-manager of an Elop subsidiary in the United States. Mr. Gaspar holds a bachelor of science degree from the Technion in electronic engineering with advanced studies in digital signal processing and communication. Zeev Gofer. Zeev Gofer was appointed as Executive Vice President – Strategic and Business Development – North America in 2009. From 2008 until his current appointment he was executive vice president – business development and marketing, after serving as corporate vice president – business development and marketing since 2003. He previously served as corporate vice president and as co-general manager – aircraft and helicopter upgrades and systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1999 until 2000, he was vice president – aircraft upgrades and airborne systems division, having served as division manager since 1996. He joined Elbit Ltd. in 1982 and held various management positions, including director of the aircraft upgrade division, director of a major aircraft upgrade program, director of avionics system engineering and technical manager of the Lavi aircraft avionics program. Mr. Gofer holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electronic engineering from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. Dalia Gonen. Dalia Gonen was appointed as Executive Vice President – Human Resources in 2008 after serving as vice president – human resources from 2000 until 2007. She became director of human resources in 1996. Ms. Gonen joined Elbit Ltd. in 1971 and held various positions in the human resources department. Ms. Gonen holds a bachelor of arts degree in sociology from Haifa University and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York. Ran Hellerstein. Ran Hellerstein was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division in 2008 after serving as corporate vice president and co-general manager – aircraft and helmet systems since 2003. Mr. Hellerstein served as corporate vice president and co-general manager – aircraft and helicopter upgrades and systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1996 until 2000, he served as vice president – development and engineering division, having served as division manager since 1993. Mr. Hellerstein joined Elbit Ltd. in 1978 and served in various management positions, including manager of the engineering division, department manager, technical manager and systems engineer. Mr. Hellerstein holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electrical engineering from the Technion. Raanan Horowitz. Raanan Horowitz was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Elbit Systems of America in 2007. He served as executive vice president and general manager of EFW from 2001 until his current appointment. From 1991 until 2001, Mr. Horowitz held various management positions with EFW and other U.S. subsidiaries of the Company. From 1989 to 1991, he served as a senior program manager for Elbit Ltd. Mr. Horowitz serves on the board of governors of the Aerospace Industries Association and is a member of the national board of directors of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. Mr. Horowitz holds an MBA from the Seidman School of Business of Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Michigan. He also holds a master of science degree in electrical engineering and a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Tel-Aviv University. Bezhalel Machlis. Bezhalel Machlis was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I Division in 2008 after serving as corporate vice president and general manager – land systems and C4I since 2004. In 2003, he served as corporate vice president and general manager – ground, C4I and battlefield systems. From 2000 until 2002, he served as vice president – battlefield and information systems. Mr. Machlis joined Elbit Ltd. in 1991 and held various management positions in the battlefield and information systems area. Prior to that, he served as an artillery officer in the IDF, where he holds the rank of colonel (reserves). Mr. Machlis holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering and a bachelor of arts degree in computer science from the Technion and an MBA from Tel-Aviv University. Ilan Pacholder. Ilan Pacholder was appointed as Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions in 2009, in addition to his position as Executive Vice President – Offset and Financing to which he was appointed in 2008. During 2007, he served as vice president and chief financial officer of Tadiran Communications Ltd. Mr. Pacholder served as corporate secretary and vice president – finance and capital markets of Elbit Systems from 2003 until 2006. From 2001 until 2003, he served as vice president – finance. Mr. Pacholder joined Elbit Ltd. in 1994 and held various senior positions in the finance department. Prior to joining Elbit Ltd. he served as the chief financial officer for Sanyo Industries in New York. Before that Mr. Pacholder worked for Bank Leumi in New York for 10 years and held the position of vice president in the international and domestic lending departments. Mr. Pacholder holds a bachelor of arts degree in accounting and economics from Queens College in New York and an MBA in finance and investments from Adelphi University. 69 Marco Rosenthal. Marco Rosenthal was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Technologies and Operations Division in 2008, after serving as corporate vice president and co-general manager – technologies and operations division since 2005. He served as corporate vice president – manufacturing and purchasing from 2001 until 2005, having served from 1999 to 2001 as vice president – operations and general manager of the Karmiel facility. From 1996 to 1999, he served as vice president – material. Mr. Rosenthal joined Elbit Ltd. in 1975 and held various management positions, including director of the sales department. Mr. Rosenthal holds a degree in technical engineering from the Technion and a degree in business management from Haifa University. Haim Rousso. Haim Rousso was appointed as Executive Vice President – Engineering and Technology Excellence in 2009. Prior to that he served from 2008 as executive vice president and general manager – electro-optics Elop division after serving as corporate vice president and general manager of Elop since 2000. He held various management positions in Elop since 1972. He serves on the board of directors of Starling Advanced Communications Ltd. Mr. Rousso holds bachelor and master of science degrees in electrical engineering from the Technion. Gideon Sheffer. Gideon Sheffer was appointed as Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning and Business Development – Israel in August 2009. From 2008 until his current position he served as executive vice president – strategic planning, after serving as corporate vice president – strategic planning since 2001. Prior to that he served as acting head of Israel’s National Security Council and as national security advisor to former Prime Minister Ehud Barak. In 1998, he completed 32 years of service in the IDF, retiring with the rank of major general. From 1995 to 1998, he served on the general staff as head of the IDF’s human resources branch. Before that, he served as deputy commander of the IAF. Mr. Sheffer held a number of command positions in the IAF after serving as a fighter aircraft and helicopter pilot. Mr. Sheffer holds a bachelor’s degree in Israel studies from Bar Ilan University and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program. Yoram Shmuely. Yoram Shmuely was appointed as Executive Vice President and Co-General Manager – Aerospace Division in 2008 after serving as corporate vice president and co-general manager – airborne and helmet systems since 2003. He served as corporate vice president and general manager – helmet mounted systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1998 until 2000, he was vice president – helmet mounted systems division. From its founding in 1996 until 1998, he served as president of VSI. Mr. Shmuely joined Elbit Ltd. in 1990 and served as director of Elbit Ltd.’s helmet mounted display business. He served as a fighter aircraft pilot in the IAF. Mr. Shmuely holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from the Technion. Udi Vered. Yehuda (Udi) Vered was appointed Executive Vice President – Service Solutions in 2009. In addition he has served as vice president – marketing for the land and C4I division since February 2010. Prior to that, since 2004 he served as chief financial officer and vice president for contracts and sales of the land and C4I division. Mr. Vered joined Elbit Systems in 2003 as vice president for contracts and sales and chief financial officer – ground, C4I and battlefield systems. Before that, he served as an aircrew officer in the IAF, where he holds the rank of colonel (reserves). He serves on the board of directors of Chip PC Ltd. Mr. Vered holds a bachelor of arts degree in management and economics from Tel-Aviv University, an MBA from Ben Gurion University and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program. 70 Compensation of Directors and Officers The following table sets forth the aggregate compensation paid to all of our directors and officers as a group for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010: Salaries, Directors’ Fees Commissions and Bonuses Pension, Retirement and Similar Benefits (U.S. dollars in thousands) All directors (consisting of 11 persons) $ 342 (*) $ — All officers (consisting of 20 persons) $ 10,455 (**) $ 1,207 _________ (*) Elbit Systems’ shareholders at the annual general shareholders meeting held in 2004 approved payment to directors thereafter in accordance with maximum regulatory rates payable to External Directors under Israeli law for companies similarly classified based on their shareholding equity. These rates were linked to the Israeli consumer price index and were so updated and paid by Elbit Systems through March 2008. At an extraordinary general shareholders meeting held in March 2008, our shareholders approved increasing compensation, effective April 1, 2008 (and thereafter so long as such approval has not been replaced or revoked by the shareholders) to our External Directors and to other directors meeting the director independence criteria of Nasdaq, each of whom has additional duties under applicable non-Israeli law. The increased compensation was consistent with amendments to Israeli law regarding compensation to External Directors who serve on the boards of “dual listed” companies, such as Elbit Systems. As a result, External Directors and other such “independent” directors are and will be entitled, so long as the above-mentioned resolution adopted in March 2008 is in effect, to an annual fee of NIS 110,329 (equal to approximately $29,563) and a per meeting fee of 2,427 NIS (equal to approximately $650), which reflect the fees levels previously approved at the 2008 Shareholders’ Extraordinary General Meeting and linked to the Israeli consumer price index. The other directors are paid the following compensation: an annual fee of NIS 54,473 (equal to approximately $14,596) and a per meeting fee of NIS 2,055 (equal to approximately $550), which reflect the fees levels previously approved at the 2004 annual general shareholders meeting and linked to the Israeli consumer price index. We currently intend to maintain such compensation rates to such directors. Compensation payments to directors are made either directly to the director or to his or her employing company. (**) We recorded an amount of approximately $5.2 million in 2010 as compensation costs related to stock options granted to our Executive Officers under our 2007 Employee Stock Option Plan. (See below “Share Ownership – Elbit Systems’ Stock Option Plans.”) Board Practices Appointment of Directors Our directors are elected by the shareholders at the annual general shareholders meeting. They hold office until the next annual general shareholders meeting, which is held at least once every calendar year but not more than 15 months after the previous general shareholders meeting. Between annual general shareholders meetings our Board may appoint new directors to fill vacancies; however, new External Directors must be elected at a general shareholders meeting as described under “External Directors” below. Our Articles of Association authorize a maximum of 17 and a minimum of five directors. The Companies Law requires the board of directors of a public company, after considering the company’s type and size and the scope and complexity of its activities, to determine the minimum number of directors on the board having financial and accounting expertise as defined in the Companies Law. Our Board has adopted a policy pursuant to which it will include a minimum of two directors having financial and accounting expertise as defined under the Companies Law. Currently our Board has three directors who are considered by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise: Dr. Gleitman, Mr. Asheri and Mr. Ne’eman. In addition, the Companies Law provides that a person will not be elected and will not serve as a director in a public company if he or she does not have the required qualifications and the ability to dedicate an appropriate amount of time for the performance of his or her director position in the company, taking into consideration, among other factors, the special needs and size of the company. A general shareholders meeting of a company whose shares are publicly traded, at which the election of a director is to be considered, will not be held unless the nominee has declared to the company that he or she complies with the above-mentioned requirements, and the details of his or her applicable qualifications are provided. Each of our elected directors has declared to our Board that he or she complies with the required qualifications under the Companies Law for appointment as a member of our Board, detailing his or her applicable qualifications, and that he or she is capable of dedicating the appropriate amount of time for the performance of his or her role as a member of our Board. The current External Directors on our Board were each appointed at a general meeting of shareholders, with their terms expiring as described under “External Directors” below. The other seven current directors were appointed at the annual general meeting of shareholders held in November 2010. There are no service contracts or similar arrangements with any director that provide for benefits upon termination of directorship. 71 Nasdaq’s director independence and related rules applicable to boards of directors apply to Elbit Systems. Under these rules, our Board is required to meet the Nasdaq director independence criteria. Also applicable are certain other rules regarding independent directors serving on a director nomination committee and the manner for approving the compensation to Elbit Systems’ Chief Executive Officer. Directors on our Board are recommended for appointment or election by the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. (See below “Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.”) Substitute Directors. The Articles of Association provide that any director may appoint another person to serve as a substitute director. A substitute director must be qualified under the Companies Law to serve as a substitute director. If his or her appointment is for more than one meeting it will be subject to the approval of the Board. Such person may not act as a substitute director for more than one director at the same time. In addition, a Board committee member may not substitute for another Board committee member in meetings of the applicable committee. The same rules, including compensation, will apply to a substitute director as to the director who appointed him or her, and the substitute director may participate in Board and Board committee meetings in the same manner as the appointing director (subject to any applicable independence criteria). Subject to the Companies Law, a director who has appointed a substitute director may revoke the appointment at any time. In addition, the office of a substitute director will be vacated at any time that the office of the director who appointed the substitute is vacated for any reason. Any appointment or revocation of the appointment of a substitute director will be made by notice in writing to the substitute director and Elbit Systems. The appointment or revocation, as the case may be, will become effective on the later of the date of receipt of the above notice or the date fixed in the notice. External Directors Under the Companies Law publicly held Israeli companies are required to appoint at least two “External Directors.” Among other requirements, a person may serve as an External Director if that person (and each of that person’s relatives, partners and employers, or any person to whom he or she directly or indirectly reports), or any entity controlled by that person, did not have, at any time during the two years preceding that person’s appointment as an External Director, any affiliation with any of: (1) the applicable company, (2) the entities controlling the company, (3) the entities controlled by the company or (4) the entities controlled by the company’s controlling shareholders. In addition, a person may serve as an External Director if and so long as: (1) no conflict of interest exists or may exist between his or her responsibilities as a member of the board of directors of the respective company and his or her other positions or business activities or (2) such position or business activities would not impair his or her ability to serve as a director. In general, at least one External Director must have “financial and accounting expertise”, and the other External Director(s) must have “professional competence” as described below. However, in companies such as Elbit Systems that are “dual listed” (for example traded on a stock exchange in both Israel and the U.S.) if one or more other directors who meet the independence criteria applicable to members of the audit committee under the foreign applicable law (including stock exchange rules) have been determined by the board of directors to have “financial and accounting expertise” then it is permissible for any or all of the External Directors to have only “professional competence” as described below. Under the relevant regulations of the Companies Law, a director has “financial and accounting expertise” if he or she, based on his or her education, experience and qualifications, is highly skilled in respect of, and understands, business and accounting matters and financial statements, in a manner that enables him or her to have an in-depth understanding of the company’s financial statements and to stimulate discussion with respect to the manner in which the financial data is presented. The evaluation of the “financial and accounting expertise” of a director is to be made by the board of directors taking into account the parameters specified in the relevant regulations of the Companies Law. A director has “professional competence” if he or she (1) has an academic degree in either economics, business administration, accounting, law or public administration or an academic degree in an area relevant to the company’s business, or (2) has at least five years experience in a senior position in the business management of any corporate entity with a substantial scope of business, in a senior position in public service or in the field of the applicable company’s business. The evaluation of the professional competence of a director is to be made by the board of directors. 72 According to Israeli law, External Directors serve for a three-year term following which they may stand for re-election to an additional term of three years. External Directors in companies such as Elbit Systems that are “dual listed” may stand for re-election to additional terms of up to three years each beyond the first two terms, subject to meeting the following conditions: (1) the audit committee and the board both determine that based upon the expertise and the unique contribution of the External Director to the work of the board and its committees, his or her re-election for an additional term is for the benefit of the company; (2) his or her re-election is approved at a general shareholders meeting by the special majority required for nomination of External Directors under the Companies Law; and (3) his or her terms of service as an External Director and the considerations of the audit committee and the board regarding his or her re-election were presented to the general meeting of shareholders prior to the vote on such approval. At a general meeting of shareholders held in March 2008, our shareholders approved an amendment to our Articles of Association, consistent with such amendment to Israeli law, allowing External Directors of the Company to be elected to more than two terms of service. Any committee of the Board must include at least one External Director, and all External Directors must be members of the Audit Committee. Yehoshua Gleitman and Dalia Rabin currently serve as our Board’s External Directors. Dr. Gleitman’s term of office ends in March 2013, and the term of office of Dalia Rabin ends in November 2013. Yehoshua Gleitman was determined by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise under Israeli law, and Dalia Rabin was determined by the Board to have the applicable professional competence to serve as an External Director. Audit Committee. Avraham Asheri (Chair), Moshe Arad, Yehoshua Gleitman, Yigal Ne’eman and Dalia Rabin are members of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee operates in accordance with an Audit Committee Charter that provides the framework for its oversight functions consistent with Israeli and U.S. legal and regulatory requirements. All of the members of the Audit Committee meet the applicable requirements of the Companies Law and have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). The Audit Committee meets from time to time in executive sessions and also conducts annual assessments of the sufficiency of its Charter and of the Committee’s compliance with its obligations. (See Item 10. Additional Information – General Provisions of Israeli Law and Related Provisions – Internal Auditor and Audit Committee; Item 16A. Audit Committee – Financial Expert and Item 16D. Exemptions from Listing Standards for Audit Committees.) Financial Statements Review Committee. Yehoshua Gleitman (Chair), Avraham Asheri, Moshe Arad, Yigal Ne’eman and Dalia Rabin are members of the Board’s Financial Statements Review Committee, which was established in March 2011. Pursuant to the Israeli Companies Regulations, a public company, such as Elbit Systems, is required to establish a committee of the board of directors for the examination of the financial statements. Commencing with the annual financial statements of 2010, financial reports of a public company may be brought for discussion and approval of the board only after such committee has discussed and formulated recommendations to the board in connection with: (1) the valuations and estimates used in connection with the financial statements; (2) the internal controls related to financial reporting; (3) the completeness and appropriateness of disclosure in the financial statements; (4) the accounting policy adopted and accounting treatment applied in the material matters of the company; and (5) valuations, including the assumptions and estimates underlying them, on which data in the financial statements is provided. The chairperson of the committee must be an External Director and the other members of the committee must be directors who meet certain independence requirements, and, among other criteria, must be able to read and understand financial statements, with at least one of the members having "financial and accounting expertise" (as defined above). Yehoshua Gleitman, Avraham Asheri and Yigal Ne’eman have been determined by the Board to have “financial and accounting expertise”. Compensation Committee. Avraham Asheri (Chair), Moshe Arad and Yehoshua Gleitman are members of the Board’s Compensation Committee. The purpose of the Compensation Committee is to carry out on behalf of the Board the responsibilities of the Board relating to approval of compensation of the Company’s senior officers, however, compensation terms of the Company’s President must also be approved by the Board as a whole. All of the committee members have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the SEC. 73 Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Yehoshua Gleitman (Chair), Avraham Asheri, Yigal Ne’eman and Dalia Rabin are members of the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. This Committee operates in accordance with a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter that specifies its oversight functions consistent with Israeli and U.S. legal and regulatory requirements. The role of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with respect to the qualification of candidates to become Board members and to monitor compliance with corporate governance requirements applicable to Board members. All of the members of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee have been determined to be independent as defined by the applicable Nasdaq rules and those of the SEC. A nominee to our Board must have such experience in business or financial matters as would make such nominee an asset to the Board. In recommending director candidates, our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee takes into consideration such factors as it deems appropriate based on our current needs. These factors may include: professional and person ethics and integrity; business, professional and industry knowledge, sophistication and contacts; the ability to make informed and independent judgments on a wide range of issues; relevant skills and experience demonstrated through business, professional, charitable or civic affairs; and the candidate’s ability to devote the required time and effort to serve on our Board. (See Item 16.G. Corporate Governance.) Board Committee Membership Audit Committee: Financial Statements Review Committee: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee: Compensation Committee: Avraham Asheri (Chair) Yehoshua Gleitman (Chair) Yehoshua Gleitman (Chair) Avraham Asheri (Chair) Moshe Arad Avraham Asheri Avraham Asheri Moshe Arad Yehoshua Gleitman Moshe Arad Yigal Ne’eman Yehoshua Gleitman Yigal Ne’eman Yigal Ne’eman Dalia Rabin Dalia Rabin Dalia Rabin Employees Number of Employees. Most of our employees are based in Israel, and we have a significant number of employees in the United States. The total number of employees worldwide and the number of employees in the U.S. at the end of 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Total Employees U.S. Employees 2010 12,317 1,963 2009 11,238 1,806 2008 10,876 1,826 Employment Contracts. The majority of our Israeli employees have individual employment contracts. However, by law some employees receive rights under a number of general collective bargaining agreements and under Israeli employment laws. See 