ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may differ materially from past results and from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K due to various uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those risks set forth below, one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. Uncertain government budgets and shifting government priorities could delay contract awards and funding and adversely affect our ability to continue work under our government contracts. Additionally, federal procurement directives could result in our loss of work on current programs to set-asides and large multiple award contracts. Our business is subject to funding delays, terminations, reductions, extensions, and moratoriums caused by the government's budgeting and contracting process. The current federal procurement environment is unpredictable and could adversely affect our ability to perform work under new and existing contracts. Contract award and funding delays extend across the federal technical services industry. We experienced delays in contract awards and funding on our contracts in recent years that have impacted our ability to continue existing work and to replace expiring work. Additionally, our government business is subject to the risk that one or more of our potential contracts or contract extensions may be awarded by the contracting agency to a small or disadvantaged or minority-owned business pursuant to set-aside programs administered by the Small Business Administration, or may be bundled into large multiple award contracts for very large businesses. These risks can potentially have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profit margins. Increased market competition resulting from decreases in government spending for contract services could affect our ability to sustain our revenue levels. Continuing pressure on government budgets may adversely affect the flow of work to federal contractors, particularly new programs. Consequently, competitor contractors that experience a loss of government work have tended to redirect their marketing efforts toward the types of work that we perform. This increase in competition for our service offerings has affected our ability to win new work or successor contracts to continue work that is currently performed by us under expiring contracts. Furthermore, disappointed bidders frequently protest, which can delay or reverse contract awards. Our business could be adversely affected by incidents that could cause an interruption in our operations or impose a significant financial liability on us. Disruption of our operations due to internal or external system or service failures, accidents or incidents involving employees or third parties working in high-risk locations, or natural disasters or other crises could adversely affect our financial performance and condition. Our Managed Inventory Program ("MIP") that supplies truck replacement parts for the United States Postal Service ("USPS") fleet, our Foreign Military Sales ("FMS") Program for the U.S. Navy, and our vehicle and equipment refurbishment work for the U.S. Army Reserve are our three largest revenue generators, accounting for 30%, 20%, and 13% of our 2013 revenues. A fire, flood, earthquake, or other natural disaster at physical facilities that support these operations, or a procurement system or contractual delay such as we experienced on our U.S. Army Reserve contract in 2013, could potentially interrupt the revenues from our operations. The nature of our operations and work performed by our employees present certain challenges related to work force management. Our financial performance is heavily dependent on the abilities of our operating and administrative staff with respect to technical skills, operating performance, pricing, cost management, safety, and administrative and compliance efforts. A wide diversity of contract types, nature of work, work locations, and legal and regulatory complexities challenges our administrative staff and skill sets. We also face challenges associated with our quality of workforce, quality of work, safety, and labor relations compliance. Our current and projected work in foreign countries exposes us to challenges associated with export compliance, local laws and customs, workforce issues, extended supply chain, political unrest and war zone threats. Failure to attract or retain an adequately skilled workforce, lack of knowledge or training in critical functions, or inadequate staffing levels can result in lost work, reduced profit margins, losses from cost overruns, performance deficiencies, workplace accidents, and regulatory noncompliance. 8 Table of Contents Our work on large government program efforts presents a risk to revenue and profit growth and sustainability. The eventual expiration of large government programs, or the loss of or disruption of revenues on a single contract, presents the potential for reduced revenues and profits. Such revenue losses could also erode profits on our remaining programs that would have to absorb a larger portion of the fixed corporate costs previously allocated to the expiring programs or discontinued contract work. Our Supply Chain Management Group managed inventory program for USPS, our Federal Group equipment refurbishment program for the U.S. Army Reserve, and our International Group FMS Program provide significant amounts of revenues and profits, which if interrupted, could adversely impact our overall financial performance. Acquisitions, which have been a part of our business strategy in recent years, present certain risks. The decision to acquire a company that subsequently does not meet expected operating and financial performance targets, the failure to make or timely complete an acquisition, the ineffective integration of an acquisition, or the inability of our company to service debt associated with making an acquisition could potentially adversely affect our financial performance. Global economic conditions and political factors could adversely affect revenues on current government programs. Revenues from our government programs for which work is performed in foreign countries are subject to economic conditions in these countries and to political risks posed by ongoing foreign conflicts and potential terrorist activity. A significant amount of our revenues in past years resulted from the U.S. military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the winding down of this U.S. military involvement has adversely affected our revenues. Also, services performed by our employees on our FMS Program are, to a certain extent, dependent on our placement of employees in a client country. In 2011, political unrest in Egypt caused us to temporarily evacuate employees from that country, resulting in a decline in services performed by our employees for our Egyptian Navy client. This resulted in a decline in our revenues as compared to pre-evacuation periods. Similarly, in 2013 further political unrest in Egypt caused a second evacuation from the country and a decline in our revenues. Revenues from our Egyptian Navy client were approximately $48 million in 2013 as compared to $52 million in 2012. Such global economic and political risks could have a material adverse effect on our future financial performance. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations that could expose us to potential liabilities or loss of work. Additionally, we are exposed to contractual and financial liabilities if our subcontractors do not perform satisfactorily. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of government contracts. Additionally, we are responsible for subcontractor compliance with these laws and regulations. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs to us. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of contracts or debarment from bidding on government contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are significantly more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the government may terminate any government contract or subcontract at its convenience, as well as for performance default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. A termination for default could also impact our past performance and ability to win new work. In addition, the government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of services provided by us as a subcontractor. 9 Table of Contents Additionally, some of our contract work is performed by subcontractors, and such work is subject to government compliance, performance and financial risks. If unsatisfactory performance or compliance failure occurs on the part of subcontractors, we must bear the cost to remedy these deficiencies on our prime contracts. Due to the nature of our work we could potentially be exposed to legal actions arising from our operations. Our work includes many manual tasks, including warehousing, shipping and packing of truck parts inventory, maintaining and repairing military and non-military vehicles and equipment, and maintaining and overhauling U.S. Navy ships. This may pose certain challenges that could potentially cause us to be exposed to legal and other liabilities arising from performance issues or from work related incidents that result in damages, injury or death to third parties (see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings"). Such events could cause us to suffer financial losses and adversely affect our financial condition. Technology security risks could potentially impact our financial results. Some of our contract work includes data management and technology services associated with Social Security Administration and military medical and health records. This exposes us to certain information and technology security risks. If there was a security breach of sensitive data in our custody or for which we provide services, we could possibly be held liable for damages to third parties related to such security breach and incur costs to prevent future incidents. Costs associated with preventing or remediating information management security breaches have not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, the occurrence of a future security breach event could potentially have such an adverse effect. Environmental and pollution risks could potentially impact our financial results. Some of our contract work includes the use of chemical solvents and the handling of hazardous materials to maintain and refurbish vehicles and equipment. This exposes us to certain environmental and pollution risks. Costs associated with preventing or remediating pollution clean-up efforts and environmental regulatory compliance have not yet had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, the occurrence of a future environmental or pollution event could potentially have such an adverse effect. Investments in facilities could cause losses if certain work is disrupted or discontinued. We have made investments in facilities and lease commitments to support specific business programs, work requirements, and service offerings. A slowing or disruption of these business programs, work requirements, or service offerings that results in operating below intended levels could cause us to suffer financial losses. We incurred charges against operating income of approximately $1.2 million in 2013 and $1.9 million in 2012 associated with the lease of warehouse facilities for our Seized Asset programs. Our business could be adversely affected by government audits. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made. 10 Table of Contents New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. Changes to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") arise from new and revised guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. These changes could result in unanticipated effects on results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. Certain contracts comprise a material portion of our backlog. Contracts supporting work performed on our FMS Program and our U.S. Army Reserve vehicle and equipment refurbishment work constitute a material portion of our backlog. Once funded, the likelihood of not fulfilling the work requirements associated with our backlog is remote. However, this concentration of our backlog in a few key contracts subjects us to risk of material adverse revenue disruptions if contractual or other issues prevent or delay the fulfillment of work requirements associated with backlog on these key contracts. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 