ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our business and your investment in us. Deterioration of economic conditions could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to and functioning of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Deterioration in national and global economic conditions may reduce demand for our products and overall growth of the coatings industry. 3 Table of Contents Volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our operations as follows: • the value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including our assets held in pension plans; • the financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers; and • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future. Additionally, we utilize hedges and other derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various interest rate risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in our earnings each period. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. We purchase the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. The majority of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives and minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available from one or more suppliers on the open market. From time to time, however, the availability and costs of raw materials may fluctuate significantly, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. Our raw material costs have been volatile, and we have experienced disruptions in supplies of certain raw materials at various times. These disruptions could affect our ability to manufacture products ordered by our customers, which could negatively impact sales. When raw material costs increase, our profit margins are reduced unless and until we are able to pass along the increases to our customers through higher prices. If raw material costs increase, and if we are unable to pass along, or are delayed in passing along, those increases to our customers, we will experience profit margin reductions. Many of our customers are in cyclical industries, which may affect the demand for our products. Many of our customers are in businesses or industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon economic cycles affecting their businesses or industries and general economic conditions. The continued weakness in the U.S. housing market has adversely affected product lines that serve this end market. Downward economic cycles affecting the industries of our customers, and the deterioration of general economic conditions, may reduce our sales and profitability. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. All aspects of the coatings and paints business are highly competitive. We face strong competitors in all areas of our business. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced margins for our products. Competitive pressures may not only impair our margins but may also impact our revenues and our growth. A number of our competitors are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could curtail price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending on marketing, sales and research and development, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Industry sources estimate that the top ten largest coatings manufacturers represent more than half of the world’s coatings sales. Our larger competitors may have more resources to finance acquisitions or internal growth in this competitive environment. Also, we buy our raw materials from large suppliers, primarily chemical companies. In many of our product lines, we then sell our finished goods to large customers, such as do-it-yourself home centers, large equipment manufacturers and can makers. Our larger competitors may have more resources or capabilities to conduct business with these large suppliers and large customers. Finally, many of our larger competitors operate businesses other than paints and coatings. These competitors may be better able to compete during coatings industry downturns. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our total debt, including notes payable, was $1,057.1 million at October 28, 2011. Our level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it: • may require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • could make us less attractive to prospective or existing customers or less able to fund potential acquisitions; and 4 Table of Contents • may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to a competitor that may have less indebtedness. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy, and future acquisitions may not be successful. Acquisitions have historically contributed significantly to the growth of our company. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and products. If we are not able to identify and complete future acquisitions, our growth may be negatively affected. Even if we are successful in completing future acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits from the acquired companies or products; • difficulties due to lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures or product liability; • unforeseen adjustments, charges and write-offs; • unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, acquired businesses; • difficulty in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • variability in financial information arising from the application of purchase price accounting; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses; and • challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Any of these factors may make it more difficult to repay our debt. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses or the cost of acquired assets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States. We currently have production facilities, research and development facilities, and administrative and sales offices located outside the United States, including facilities and offices located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Kingdom and Vietnam. In 2011, revenues from products sold outside the United States accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. We expect sales from international markets to continue to represent a growing portion of our net sales. Notwithstanding the benefits of geographic diversification, our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce, and receivables may be difficult to collect or have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • foreign operations may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining key employees and labor disputes; • transportation and other shipping costs may increase; • foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; 5 Table of Contents • unexpected adverse changes in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency; • our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic changes or terrorist activities and responses to such activities; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be burdensome. We have certain key customers. Our relationships with certain key customers are important to us. From 2009 through 2011, sales to our largest customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated net sales. In 2011, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 30% of our consolidated net sales. Although we sell various types of products through various channels of distribution, we believe that the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on us. If the reputation of our company or one or more of its key brands is damaged, it could harm our business. Our reputation is one of the foundations of our relationships with key customers and other stakeholders. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues that negatively affect our reputation, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired, and our financial results could suffer. As we continue to invest in advertising and promotion for our key brands, our financial success is becoming more dependent on the success of our brands. The success of these brands could suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired effect on a brand’s image, reputation or ability to attract customers. Further, our growth and results could be harmed if the reputation of our company or a key brand is damaged due to real or perceived quality issues, product recalls, regulatory enforcement or actions or customer claims and litigation. Technology changes, and our ability to protect our technology, could affect our business. Our product and application technology is supported by underlying chemistry that has been developed over many years. Ongoing research and development efforts focus on improving our internally developed and acquired technology and making formulation changes to improve the performance, profitability and cost competitiveness of our products. If our competitors develop new technology, or if our customers’ technology requirements change, and we are not able to develop competitive technology, our business and financial results could suffer. Further, although we seek to protect our proprietary technology and information through confidentiality and trade secret protection programs and practices, patents, cybersecurity measures and other means, if we were unable to protect material proprietary technology or information, our business and financial results could suffer. Numerous laws and regulations affect our business. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that control the manufacturing, marketing, sale, use and disposal of our products. These laws and regulations include health, safety, product liability, environmental and labeling requirements applicable to our products and business. Environmental laws and regulations control, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances, or otherwise relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. These environmental laws and regulations impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances and violations of these laws and regulations can also result in fines and penalties. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of our facilities and properties, and have received notices under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our operations or former operations. Pursuant to health, safety, product liability and labeling laws and regulations, we have also been subject to various governmental enforcement actions and litigation by individuals relating to the sale, use of or exposure to our products or materials used or contained in our products, including claims for property damage or personal injury claimed to have been caused by our products or materials used or contained in our products. 6 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk that adverse decisions relating to our compliance with existing laws and regulations and new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretation, could increase our compliance costs and expand our potential liability for enforcement actions by governmental authorities and litigation by individuals. In addition, our customers’ or consumers’ perceptions about the acceptability or potential environmental or health effects of certain substances could require us to invest additional amounts to develop products that exclude those substances. If we are unable to develop products that exclude those substances when and if required by our customers, we may experience reduced sales and profitability. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 