ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may differ materially from past results and from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K due to various uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those set forth below, one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. The nature of our operations and significant increases in work performed by our employees in recent years present certain challenges related to work force management. Our financial performance is heavily dependent on the abilities of our operating and administrative staffs with respect to technical skills, operating performance, pricing, cost management, safety, and administrative and compliance efforts. A wider diversity of contract types, nature of work, work locations, and increased legal and regulatory complexities challenges our administrative staff and skill sets more than in prior years. Also, the recent increases and geographical expansion in our domestic operating workforce presents challenges for our quality of workforce, quality of work, safety, and labor relations compliance. The scale of our current and projected work in foreign countries is exposing us to new challenges associated with export compliance, local laws and customs, third world workforce issues, extended supply chain, and war zone threats. Failure to attract or retain an adequately skilled workforce, lack of knowledge or training in critical functions, or inadequate staffing levels can result in lost work, reduced profit margins, losses from cost overruns, performance deficiencies, and regulatory non-compliance. Our work on large program efforts presents a risk to revenue and profit growth and sustainability. The eventual expiration of large programs, or the loss of or disruption of revenues on a single contract, presents the potential for reduced revenues and profits. Such revenue losses could also erode profits on our remaining programs that would have to absorb a larger portion of the fixed corporate costs previously allocated to the expiring programs or discontinued contract work. While our largest contract, the Rapid Response (“R2”) Program, is scheduled to expire in January 2011, we expect to continue our work on existing task orders under such contract through that time, however, specific task orders under the R2 contract will expire intermittently prior to the expiration date of the contract. We have submitted a bid for a follow-on to this contract that is currently under evaluation by our U. S. Army customer. However, we cannot determine revenue levels precisely even if we are awarded a follow-on contract. We are exposed to contractual and financial liabilities if our subcontractors do not perform satisfactorily. A large percentage of our contract work is performed by subcontractors, which are subject to government compliance, performance and financial risks. Subcontractor terms generally specify the terms and performance for which the subcontractor is obligated to us. If, however, any unsatisfactory performance or compliance failure occurs on the part of subcontractors, we must still bear the cost to remedy these deficiencies on our prime contracts. Uncertain and shifting federal government priorities could delay contract awards and funding and adversely affect our ability to continue work on our government contracts. The current federal procurement environment is unpredictable and could adversely affect our ability to perform work on new and existing contracts. The delays in contract awards during the second half of 2009 is unprecedented in our experience, and appears to extend across the federal technical services industry. We anticipate that these delays in contract awards will continue into the first half of 2010. Our business is subject to funding delays, terminations, reductions, extensions, and moratoriums caused by political and administrative disagreements and inefficiencies within the government. 9 Federal procurement directives could result in a loss of work on current programs to set-asides and omnibus contracts. Our government business is subject to the risk that one or more of our potential contracts or contract extensions may be awarded by the contracting agency to a small or disadvantaged or minority-owned business pursuant to set-aside programs administered by the Small Business Administration, or may be bundled into omnibus contracts for very large businesses. These risks can potentially have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profit margins. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations that could expose us to potential liabilities or loss of work. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of government contracts. Additionally, we are responsible for subcontractor compliance with these laws and regulations. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs to us. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are significantly more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the government may terminate any government contract or subcontract at its convenience, as well as for performance default. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we would normally be entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost-type contract, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would include the cost to terminate agreements with suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, the government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of services provided by us as a subcontractor. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the government. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made. 10 Global economic conditions and political factors could adversely affect revenues on current programs. Revenues from our CED Army Equipment Support, CED Assured Mobility Systems Program, GLOBAL Ship Transfer and other programs for which work is performed in foreign countries are subject to political risks posed by the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and potential terrorist activity. A significant amount of our revenues in recent years has resulted from the U.S. military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, and an end to or substantial reduction of such U.S. military involvement could cause a decrease in our revenues. Similarly, a change in the political landscape in Egypt or other client countries could cause a decrease in our revenues. International tensions can also affect our work by FMD on U.S. Navy ships when they are deployed outside of U.S. Navy facilities and are unavailable for maintenance work during those times. Adverse results arising from these global economic and political risks could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of contracts and programs. Our business includes both cost-type and fixed-price contracts. Cost-type contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Typically the use of subcontractors and large material purchases on government contracts do not allow for profit margins that are as high as profit margins from contracts under which the work is performed by our own personnel. The use of subcontractors and large material purchases may lower our overall profit margins in some years. Investments in facilities could cause losses if certain work is disrupted or discontinued. We have made investments in facilities and lease commitments to support specific business programs, work requirements, and service offerings. A slowing or disruption of these business programs, work requirements, or service offerings that results in operating below intended levels could cause us to suffer financial losses. Environmental and pollution risks could potentially impact our financial results. We are exposed to certain environmental and pollution risks due to the nature of some of the contract work we perform. Costs associated with pollution clean up efforts and environmental regulatory compliance have not yet had a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, the occurrence of a future environmental or pollution event could potentially have an adverse impact. We use estimates in accounting for our programs. Changes in estimates could affect future financial results. We use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates affecting the financial statements include contract disallowance and self-insured health claims, and estimated cost-to- complete on certain fixed-price contracts. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect financial results and financial position. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”) arise from new and revised guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. These changes could result in unanticipated effects on results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None ITEM 