D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which should be read in conjunction with all the other information presented in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Associated with Our Business We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets and in the Eurozone. In the past years, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, general widening of spreads and, in some cases, lack of price transparency on interbank lending rates. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. 10 Table of Contents In 2011, the Eurozone has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and market disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, and general economic weakening, including in Spain, the home of our controlling shareholder. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the Eurozone, especially Spain, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect our results of operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other private sector Chilean and non-Chilean banks, with Banco del Estado, the principal government-owned sector bank, with department stores and larger supermarket chains that make consumer loans and sell other financial products to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower middle- to middle-income segments of the Chilean population and the small- and mid- sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks and competition in these segments may increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments may decline. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from individuals and for small- and mid-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, we cannot assure you that net interest margins will be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank (such as department stores, insurance companies, cajas de compensación and cooperativas) and non-finance competitors (principally department stores and larger supermarket chains) with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans and insurance brokerage. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies with respect to savings products. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. We expect the trends of increased competition and consolidation to continue and result in the formation of large new financial groups. Consolidation in the industry, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future actual losses to our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses were Ch$488,468 million, and the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to total loans was 2.80%. The amount of the allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses and other assets require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. See “Item 5: C. Operating Results–Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009–Provision for loan losses”. We believe our allowance is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates of incurred losses, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional provisions for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to individuals and small businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans, allowances for loan losses and charge-offs. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals (approximately 53.3% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011, if interbank loans are included) and, to a lesser extent, small- and mid-sized 11 Table of Contents companies (those with annual revenues of less than US$2.3 million), which comprised approximately 14.7% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011. As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small companies and individuals. Small companies and lower- to middle-income individuals are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy than large corporations and higher-income individuals. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our residential mortgage loan portfolio totaled Ch$5,115,663 million, representing 29.34% of our total loans. (See Note 9: “Interbank Loans” and “Note 10: Loans and Accounts Receivables from Customers” in our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description and presentation of residential mortgages in statement of financial position). If the economy and real estate market in Chile experience a significant downturn, as they may due to the global financial and economic crisis, this could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial conditions of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past due loans, thereby resulting in higher provisions for loan losses and subsequent charge-offs. This may materially and adversely affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, our non-performing loans were Ch$511,357 million, and the ratio of our non-performing loans to total loans was 2.93%. For additional information on our asset quality, see “Item 5: F. Selected Statistical Information–Classification of Loan Portfolio Based on the Borrower’s Payment Performance”. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable in the current economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgage loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law that may affect our ability to foreclose or liquidate residential mortgages if the real estate in question has been declared as “family property” by a court. If any party occupying the real estate files a petition with the court requesting that such real estate be declared as family property, our ability to foreclose may be very limited. The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011, our aggregate loan portfolio, excluding interbank loans, grew by 63.9% in nominal terms to Ch$17,347,094 million (US$33.3 billion), while our consumer loan portfolio grew by 61.8% in nominal terms to Ch$2,943,846 million (US$5.7 billion). From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, our aggregate loan portfolio grew by 10.9% in nominal terms to Ch$17,434,782 million (US$33.5 billion), while our consumer loan portfolio grew by 9.0%. The further expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the consumer, small- and mid-sized companies and real estate segments) can be expected to expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of provisions for loan losses. 12 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. An economic turmoil may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at similar rates to the historical growth rate described above. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. An economic turmoil could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, DICOM en Capital (a Chilean nationwide credit bureau) and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of credit risk associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. In February 2012, the Ley de DICOM was passed, which among other provisions, eliminated from the negative credit bureaus debtors who owed less than US$4,800 as well as limiting access of the public to parts of these databases. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation may affect our results of operations. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extended periods of deflation could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, Chile experienced deflation of 1.4%. In 2011, CPI inflation was 4.44%, an increase from 3.0% in 2010. Our assets and liabilities are denominated in Chilean pesos, UF and foreign currencies. The UF is revalued in monthly cycles. On each day in the period beginning on the tenth day of any given month through the ninth day of the succeeding month, the nominal peso value of the UF is indexed up (or down in the event of deflation) in order to reflect a proportionate amount of the change in the Chilean Consumer Price Index during the prior calendar month. For more information regarding the UF, see “Item 5: C. Operating Results—Impact of Inflation” Although we benefit from inflation in Chile, due to the current structure of our assets and liabilities (i.e., a significant portion of our loans are indexed to the inflation rate, but there are no corresponding features in deposits, or other funding sources that would increase the size of our funding base), there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and result of operations in the future will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, including from extended periods of inflation that adversely affect economic growth or periods of deflation. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. Net interest income represented 71.3% of our net operating profit before loan losses in 2011 compared to 70.0% in 2010. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, leading to a reduction in our net interest income or a decrease in customer demand for our loan or deposit products. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Any changes in interest rates could adversely affect our 13 Table of Contents business, our future financial performance and the price of our securities. The following table shows the yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day notes as reported by the Central Bank of Chile at year-end 2007 to 2011. Year 90-day note at Period end (%) 2007 6.15 2008 7.86 2009 0.48 2010 3.40 2011 5.11 (1) 1) As of November 2011. The Central Bank did not report a 90-day note rate for December 2011. Source: Central Bank. Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. Customer deposits are our primary source (59.1%) of funding. As of December 31, 2011, 97.0% of our customer deposits had remaining maturities of one year or less, or were payable on demand. A significant portion of our assets have longer maturities, resulting in a mismatch between the maturities of liabilities and the maturities of assets. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose a series of restrictions on how Chilean pension fund management companies (Administradora de Fondos de Pensión, or “AFPs”) may allocate their assets. In the particular case of financial issuers’ there are three restrictions, each involving different assets and different limits determined by the amount of assets in each fund and the market and book value of the issuer’s equity. As a consequence, limits vary within funds of AFPs and issuers. As of December 31, 2011, each AFP can invest at least another 5.9% of the assets under management in Santander Chile’s bonds, deposits and mortgage finance bonds, and at least 0.6% in Santander Chile’s shares. The total amount that AFPs could additionally invest in Santander is approximately US$23.7 billion. If the exposure of any AFP to Santander exceeds the regulatory limits, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. On June 5, 2007, approved legislation in Chile (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II, also known as “MK2”) relaxed the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2011, the limit on making investments abroad was increased up to 100%, depending on the fund. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2011, 9.4% of our liabilites were from AFPs. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of our total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. As we are the result of the merger between two predecessors, we are currently required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk-weighted 14 Table of Contents assets ratio of 11%. As of December 31, 2011, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net loan loss allowance and deductions, was 14.73%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business or regulatory changes; · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; · declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio; · changes in accounting rules; · changes in provisioning guidelines that are charged directly against our equity or net income; and · changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. Starting in 2013, Chilean banks will most likely be required to adopt the guidelines set forth under the Basel II and III Capital Accord with adjustments incorporated by the SBIF once these changes are approved by Congress. This should result in a different level of minimum capital required to be maintained by us. According to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published by the SBIF for informational purposes only, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk set forth under Basel II, was 13.38% as of December 31, 2011. No assurance can be given that the adoption of the Basel II capital requirements will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. We may also be required to raise additional capital in the future in order to maintain our capital adequacy ratios above the minimum required levels. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited by numerous factors, including: our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; any necessary government regulatory approvals; our credit ratings; general market conditions for capital raising activities by commercial banks and other financial institutions; and domestic and international economic, political and other conditions. If we require additional capital in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, the SBIF may increase the minimum capital adequacy requirements applicable to us. Accordingly, although we currently meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements, we may face difficulties in meeting these requirements in the future. If we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements, we may be required to take corrective actions. These measures could materially and adversely affect our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner, the growth of our loan portfolio and other risk-weighted assets may be restricted, and we may face significant challenges in implementing our business strategy. As a result, our prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner, and on our ability to rely on our digital technologies, computer and email services, software and networks, as well as on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer system and networks. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we do not operate all of our redundant systems on a real time basis and cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, major natural catastrophes (such as earthquakes), software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any 15 Table of Contents security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, or intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we work with our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and prevent against cyber attacks, we routinely exchange personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means, and we may be the target of attempted cyber attacks. We take protective measures and continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. Although we have not experienced any material losses to date relating to cyber attacks or other such security breaches, our systems, software and networks nevertheless may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. Further, as cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may incur significant costs in our attempt to modify or enhance our protective measures or investigate or remediate any vulnerabilities. In addition, there have been a number of highly publicized cases around the world involving actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. This misconduct has included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be effective in all cases. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Like all large financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Fraud or other misconduct by employees or third parties may be difficult to detect and prevent and could subject us to financial losses and sanctions imposed by governmental authorities as well as seriously harm our reputation. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurance that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulatory risk, or the risk of not being able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines. We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with derivative transactions. We enter into derivative transactions primarily for hedging purposes and, on a limited basis, on behalf of customers. These transactions are subject to market and operational risks, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of a counterparty to perform its obligations to us). 16 Table of Contents Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to monitor and analyze these transactions depends on our information technology systems. These factors may further increase risks associated with derivative transactions and, if they are not adequately controlled, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to counterparty risk in our banking business. We are exposed to counterparty risks in addition to credit risks associated with lending activities. Counterparty risk may arise from, for example, investing in securities of third parties, entering into derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us, or executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades from proprietary trading activities that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. If these risks give rise to losses, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to protect personal information could adversely affect us. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our loan portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms. Our loan portfolios are subject to prepayment risk which results from the ability of a borrower to pay a loan prior to maturity and which comes at a time that is inconsistent with the financing of such loan by us. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases with the effect of reducing weighted average lives of interest earning assets and adversely affecting results. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our credit card and residential mortgage portfolios, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios, which may result in a mismatch in funding or in reinvestment at lower yields. Risks Relating to Chile Future natural disasters may negatively affect our results of operations. Chile lies on the Nazca tectonic plate, making it one of the world’s most seismically active regions. As a result, natural disasters, especially earthquakes, such as the February 2010 earthquake, may have an adverse impact on our results of operation. Temporary increases in the corporate tax rate in Chile to finance part of the reconstruction effort may have an adverse effect on us and our corporate clients. The government and congress approved legislation that increased the corporate income tax rate in order to pay for part of the reconstruction following the earthquake and tsunami in February 2010. The new legislation has increased the corporate tax rate from 17% to 20% in 2011. The rate was decreased to 18.5% in 2012 and is scheduled to decrease further to 17% in 2013. Congress is currently discussing a reform to Chile’s tax structure, which, among other things, would set the corporate tax rate at 20%. This legislation may have an adverse effect on us and our corporate clients. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, and our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations 17 Table of Contents and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. In line with the global economic climate, Chile’s economy contracted in 2009 for the first time since 1999. However, despite the earthquake, the Chilean economy recovered significantly and GDP increased by 5.2% in 2010 and greater than 6% in 2011. However, there can be no assurance that the Chilean economy will continue to grow in the future or that future developments will not negatively affect Chile’s overall levels of economic activity. Economic and political problems encountered by other countries may adversely affect the Chilean economy, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. The prices of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, are to varying degrees influenced by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States, Europe, Brazil, Argentina and other nations. If these nations’ economic conditions deteriorate, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years with possible adverse impact on our borrowers and counterparties. Thus, we may need to increase our allowances for loan losses, thus affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 2.9% of our assets were held abroad. There can be no assurance that the ongoing effects of the global financial crisis will not negatively impact growth, consumption, unemployment, investment and the price of exports in Chile. The crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Chile is also involved in an international litigation with Peru regarding maritime borders and has had other conflicts with neighboring countries in the past. We cannot assure you that crisis and political uncertainty in other Latin American countries will not have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 39.5% and 36.0% of our total funding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. The liquidity crisis triggered by the U.S. subprime market impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S., future market instability in the U.S. or in European markets, specifically the Spanish market, may negatively affect our ability to continue funding our business or maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. Any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of our securities. The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and appreciations in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate exposure. In order to avoid material exchange rate exposure, we enter into forward exchange transactions. The following table shows the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar as 18 Table of Contents reported by the Central Bank at period end for the last five years and the devaluation or appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar in each of those periods. Year Exchange rate (Ch$) Period end Appreciation (Devaluation) (%) 2007 495.82 (7.2 ) 2008 629.11 26.9 2009 506.43 (19.5 ) 2010 468.37 (7.5 ) 2011 521.46 11.4 April 30, 2012 483.41 (7.3 ) Source: Central Bank. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate exposure. Regulations that limit such exposures may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate risk will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate exposures, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the banking sector and financial institutions are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets were approved (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II, also known as MK2). These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10% of our regulatory capital (and up to 30% of our regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10% is secured by collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5% and 25%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate segment increases. Chile’s Congress passed a new law in August 2010 intended to increase trading in Chile, Latin America’s third-largest securities market, by allowing trading of new instruments such as exchange-traded funds and covered bonds. The law also sought to ease credit access for consumers and small companies. For example, the law made it easier for foreign banks to offer loans in Chile, cut securitization costs, allowed banks to sell bonds backed by mortgages, offers tax breaks to foreign investors in Chilean mutual funds, and repealed a law that prevented foreign banks from advertising loans. The law also intended to reduce the cost of setting up mutual funds, in part by removing limits on employing non-Chileans, and created an exchange-traded funds industry by modifying mutual fund rules to allow secondary trading and enable pension funds to invest in such mutual funds. The new class of bonds authorized by the law, known as “mortgage bonds,” is a debt obligation secured by a pool of mortgages, as is the case with European covered bonds. Unlike covered bonds, they may be issued by banks and non-banks. The current Finance Minister plans another package of reforms, the Reformas al Mercado Financiero Bicentenario. These reforms are comprised of a series of administrative changes and new regulations over the next four years, including the creation of a financial consumer protection agency, the transformation of the local securities exchange regulator (SVS) into a securities commission and increasing the autonomy of the SBIF. These proposed regulations intend to expand the use of the Chilean peso, simplify taxes on fixed-income securities, increase bank penetration and household savings, reduce the pro-cyclicality of loan loss provisions and enhance solvency and liquidity (the latter must be done through a change in the General Banking Law). The reforms also 19 Table of Contents intend to create new instruments that give more efficient financing alternatives to small and mid-sized companies and individuals, together with creating specific statutes for niche banks and micro-credit financing. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. A bill has been introduced by some members of Congress to modify the way in which the maximum interest rate is calculated in Chile. In addition, the government has recently introduced another bill in this respect which is currently being discussed. This new legislation is aimed at loans of less than UF 200 (Ch$ 4,458,806, US$ 8,569) and more than 90 days, thus including consumer loans in installments, lines of credit and credit card lines. Currently, the maximum interest rate is calculated as the average rate of all operations done within the banking industry over the previous month, multiplied by a factor of 1.5 times. As of December 31, 2011, the average annual interest rate for this type of loans reached 34.26% and the maximum annual interest rate reached 51.39%. The bill proposed by the government would change the factor to 1.36. Hence, the maximum annual interest rate would drop to approximately 46%. On the other hand, the bill proposed by members of Congress would set the maximum interest rate at the equivalent of three times the MPR (Monetary Policy Rate). As of April 2011, the MPR reached 5.00%, thus, the maximum annual interest rate would reach 15.00%. Recent developments aim towards a consensus solution which could set the maximum interest rate for this type of loans at around 30% to 40%. If the proposed bill is passed as it is, the impact would be mainly on Banefe’s segment, which represents less than 5% of our total loans. If the bill proposed by members of Congress is passed, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our average interest rate on loans of this category in 2011 has been 21.4%. In March 2012, a bill aimed to give additional enforcement powers to the SERNAC (Chile’s Consumer Protection Agency) regarding financial services became effective and created the SERNAC Financiero, a specific consumer protection agency for the financial industry. The SERNAC Financiero has powers to supervise and regulate Bank products and services. This could lead to additional scrutiny regarding prices and contracts for financial products and services, increasing competition among bank and non-bank competitors and adversely affecting prices. In July 2012, new regulations regarding the selling of mandatory insurance for loans will be introduced that will increase competition and that could lower our fees from collecting these premiums. This could have a negative impact on fees, which impact has not yet been quantified. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. 20 Table of Contents In line with the future adoption of Basel II regulations in Chile, the SBIF has recently proposed to increase the minimum regulatory capital ratio from 8% to 10%, which would require an amendment to the General Banking Law. Although we currently have a regulatory capital ratio of 14.73%, this change could require us to inject additional capital to our business in the future. According to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published for informational purposes only by the SBIF, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk set forth under Basel II was 13.38% as of December 31, 2011. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. These new reforms could result in increased competition in the industry and thus may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of labor relations in Chile could impact our business. As of December 31, 2011, on a consolidated basis we had 11,566 employees, of which 65.2% were unionized. In May 2010, a new collective bargaining agreement was signed, which became effective on January 1, 2011 and that will expire on December 31, 2014. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally had good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any downgrading of Chile’s debt credit rating for domestic and international debt and/or our controlling shareholder’s ratings by international credit rating agencies may also affect our ratings, our business, our future financial performance and the value of our securities. In 2011, the three main rating agencies, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch downgraded the Kingdom of Spain and the credit risk rating of our main shareholder, Grupo Santander, which as the date of this Annual Report continued to both have a negative outlook by the main rating agencies. Following these actions, Fitch and S&P placed Banco Santander Chile’s ratings on credit watch negative. Subsequently, S&P cut Santander Chile’s long-term foreign issuer credit rating by one notch to A in February 2012, removing the Bank from credit watch negative and placing all ratings on outlook stable. Fitch resolved in February 2012 not to reduce the Bank’s ratings, removing the Bank from credit watch negative and placing all ratings on outlook stable. Despite this, any additional adverse revisions to our controlling shareholder’s ratings and/or Chile’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, our business, future financial performance, stockholder’s equity and the price of our securities. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. Accounting, financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Chile differ from those in the United States. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. financial institution. There are also material differences between IFRS and U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis unaudited consolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Chile and the rules of the Superintendency of Banks. Such disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open or publicly listed companies such as us, aim to promote disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some material respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. 21 Table of Contents Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information relating to equity investments and conduct such operations within Chile’s Formal Exchange Market. The ADSs are subject to a contract, dated May 17, 1994, among the Depositary, us and the Central Bank (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that remains in full force and effect. The ADSs continue to be governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Contract subject to the regulations in existence prior to April 2001. The Foreign Investment Contract grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADSs access to the Formal Exchange Market, which permits the Depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of the ADSs. The Foreign Investment Contract also permits ADS holders to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility, or that have been received free of payment as a consequence of spin offs, mergers, capital increases, wind ups, share dividends or preemptive rights transfers, enabling them to acquire the foreign currency necessary to repatriate earnings from such investments. Pursuant to Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract cannot be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank, and there are judicial precedents (although not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that contracts of this type may not be abrogated by future legislative changes or resolutions of the Advisory Council of the Central Bank. Holders of shares of our common stock, except for shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS facility or received in the manner described above, are not entitled to the benefits of the Foreign Investment Contract, may not have access to the Formal Exchange Market, and may have restrictions on their ability to repatriate investments in shares of our common stock and earnings therefrom. Holders of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the Depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the Depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. ADS holders may not be able to effect service of process on, or enforce judgments or bring original actions against, us, our directors or our executive officers, which may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to seek relief against us. We are a Chilean corporation. None of our directors are residents of the United States and most of our executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for ADS holders to effect service of process outside Chile upon us or our directors and executive officers or to bring an action against us or such persons in the United States or Chile to enforce liabilities based on U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for ADS holders to enforce in the United States or in Chilean courts money judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. If a U.S. court grants a final money judgment in an action based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, enforceability of this money judgment in Chile will be subject to the obtaining of the relevant “exequatur” (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) according to Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. 22 Table of Contents Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. We cannot assure you of the accuracy or comparability of facts, forecasts and statistics contained in this report with respect to Chile, its economy and global banking industries. Facts, forecasts and statistics in this document relating to Chile, Chile’s economy and the Chilean banking industry, including market share information, are derived from various official and other publicly available sources that we generally believe to be reliable. However, we cannot guarantee the quality and reliability of such official and other sources of materials. In addition, these facts, forecasts and statistics have not been independently verified by us and, therefore, we make no representation as to the accuracy of such facts, forecasts and statistics, which may not be consistent with other information compiled within or outside of Chile and may not be complete or up to date. We have taken reasonable care in reproducing or extracting the information from such sources. However, because of possibly flawed or ineffective methodologies underlying the published information or discrepancies between the published information and market practice and other problems, these facts, forecasts or statistics may be inaccurate and may not be comparable from period to period or to facts, forecasts or statistics produced for other economies, and you should not unduly rely upon them. Risks Relating to Our ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. Our ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE. Our common stock is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Chile Electronic Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Exchange, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Stock Exchanges, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. At December 31, 2011, we had 188,446,126,794 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. According to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on one or more Chilean Stock Exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. In addition, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it deems necessary. Although our common stock is traded on the Chilean Stock Exchanges, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to exist. Approximately 33.0% of our outstanding common stock is held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Banco Santander Spain and its affiliates), including our shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained 23 Table of Contents upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Companies Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible in the United States unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights in the United States. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available under U.S. securities law, the Depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. You may have fewer and less clearly defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less clearly defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs will not be direct shareholders of our company and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the laws of Chile. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common stock represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. Holders of our common stock will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the Depositary following our notice to the Depositary requesting the Depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the Depositary on a timely basis on how they wish to vote. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our common stock. If the Depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the Depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the Depositary to vote the common stock underlying their ADSs. In addition, the Depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the common stocks underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. 