D. Risk factors. This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in our Company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operation or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our Company. 6 The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations or prospects. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our operations are not profitable, and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Group reported a net loss of approximately Rmb64.63 million and net cash used in operations of approximately Rmb20.41 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was only Rmb5.35 million as of December 31, 2011. The directors of the Company believe that the Group will be able to generate adequate cash flows to finance its operations and to meet its cash obligations in 2012 and, accordingly, the financial statements included in this Annual Report have been prepared on a going concern basis. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our business strategy has evolved significantly over time, and our limited operating history in the solar business may not serve as an adequate measure for our future results of operations. We have limited experience in the solar business in which we are currently engaged. We were formed in 1995 and have engaged in a number of different businesses, including sanitary wares and ceramic tiles manufacturing, internet-related business and nutraceutical-related business. We launched our solar energy business in September 2007, completed the installation of our first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line in June 2008 and made our first commercial shipment of solar base plates in December 2008. Our technology for SnO2 base plates manufacturing is in its early stages, and we did not successfully ramp up the production line to its full capacity as we expected, which resulted in no sales of the SnO2 base plates in 2009. In 2010, we commenced the establishment of a new factory to produce solar modules at our production base and completed the first shipment of solar modules in September 2010. At the end of 2010, we acquired a company producing PV modules located in Jinjiang, Fujian Province, China. In 2011, we established offices in Milan, Italy and Frankfurt, Germany to promote the sale of our PV modules and to develop solar power plants in Europe. Our historical operating results do not reflect our current focus on the solar industry and, as such, do not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our current or planned businesses or our future prospects. Accordingly, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we face as an early-stage company seeking to develop new projects and manufacture new products in the rapidly evolving solar industry. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We have incurred significant operating losses, and we do not know whether we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses in the preceding five years as follows: Year Operating loss (in thousands of Rmb) 2007 (24,495 ) 2008 (24,338 ) 2009 (32,331 ) 2010 (28,527 ) 2011 (46,267 ) Our solar business generated no revenues in 2007, de minimis revenues in 2008 and no revenues in 2009. We started to manufacture solar modules in May 2010 and completed the first shipment of solar modules in September 2010. Our offices in Italy and Germany were established in 2011. During the past five years, we have expended and anticipate that we will continue to expend significant financial and other resources as we expand our solar business. The rapidly evolving markets in which we operate our solar business make it difficult for us to predict our future performance. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is uncertain and will depend largely on the successful expansion of our market share with respect to solar products and solar plants. If we fail to operate our production lines up to their designed capacity, or if we fail to expand our sales network and develop solar plants and systems, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We cannot accurately estimate our future operating losses because our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: • the need to procure additional equipment at reasonable cost and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance the construction and expansion of production lines and solar power plants, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • product upgrading or updating by us or our competitors; 7 • demand for our solar products and services; • our competitors’ price changes; • our research and development and marketing activities; • our acquisition costs of new technology or businesses or other resources for development of solar plants, including roof-top solar power systems; • employee wage pressure arising from increased competition for skilled employees and increased governmental staff welfare regulations; • the loss of our controlling interest in a our manufacturing plan in connection with the restructuring of Sinofield Group Ltd. in 2012; • any decision by CMNE to purchase solar modules from a source other than our Company; and • extraordinary costs incurred for any acquisitions or reductions in force. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these factors, or by additional factors of which we are currently unaware. As a result, we do not know whether we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. , We expect that we will need to obtain additional financing to continue to operate our solar business, including significant capital expenditures to increase our production capacity and to develop solar power plants and systems. If we cannot obtain additional financing when we need it, our growth prospects and results of operations for our solar business may be materially adversely affected. We have been experiencing substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations, and we expect that we will continue to need significant financing to operate our solar business. In particular, we expect that we will require significant additional capital to increase the manufacturing capacity of our solar production lines and to expand our sales network and project development in overseas markets. We will also need cash resources to fund our solar research and development activities in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. In addition, future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments will cause us to require additional financing. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • the trading price of our common stock on Nasdaq; • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in the solar industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We do not know whether additional financing will be available or whether the terms of such additional financing, if available, will be acceptable to us. If additional financing is not available or not available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, our ability to fund our solar business, expand our manufacturing operations and sales network, develop and construct solar power plants and systems, maintain our solar research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly impaired. If we are required to pay higher than anticipated costs for additional financing, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could be required to make operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. If new shares are issued for equity financing or acquisition purposes, interests of existing shareholders will be diluted. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy and manage our planned solar business expansion effectively. We anticipate growth in market demand for solar power applications in the future, which will require us to continue to expand our business to capture emerging market opportunities and increase our penetration and market share. Our growth strategy requires us to introduce additional solar products and services through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions, including products for which there are no established markets in China and products and/or services with respect to which we lack experience and expertise. We do not know whether we will be able to deliver new solar products or achieve our planned expansion on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementing our growth strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 To manage this planned expansion of our solar business operations, we will need to improve our operational and financial systems, internal procedures and risk control system, increase our manufacturing throughput, enhance our power plant operation skills, and recruit, train and manage our employee base, especially our engineering and manufacturing operation management team. In addition, our management must maintain and strengthen our relationship with our suppliers, strategic partners, customers and local governments. We do not know whether our current and planned systems and internal controls will be adequate to support our planned expansion. If we are not able to manage our business expansion effectively, we will not be able to execute our business strategy or capitalize on market opportunities, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully in a competitive solar market against competitors with greater resources and more advanced technologies. Many of our competitors in the solar industry have one or more of the following advantages over us: • longer operating history; • greater financial, technological, marketing, sales and other resources; • profitable operations; • superior product functionality in certain areas; • greater name recognition; • a broader range of products to offer; and • a larger base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their sales, which may result in increased competition. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. As a result of China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, more and more foreign companies are entering into the Chinese markets, which has resulted in greater competition in China’s developing solar industry. Our primary competitors in manufacturing solar modules include Suntech Power Holdings, Trina Solar Limited and Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited, all of which have greater name recognition than our Company. In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the solar market that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from large semiconductor manufacturers, a few of which have already announced their intention to enter the solar business. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the solar market, new competition, and new product developments. The markets in which our solar business is involved are characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Our success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • provide a broad range of reliable solar products at the lowest cost; • timely develop and introduce new products incorporating technological advances; • respond promptly to new customer requirements; • comply promptly with evolving industry standards; • control delays and cost overruns due to external factors beyond our control, such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; • qualify for available government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; and • execute our business strategy and expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, particularly our technical personnel and executive officers. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar industry and operations management, are vital to our success. If one or more of our executive officers or key technical persons are unable or unwilling to continue their employment, we may not be able to replace them in a timely and effective manner. In that event, our business could be severely disrupted and we may incur significant expense to recruit and retain replacements. Furthermore, one or more of our current key employees could join our competitors or form a new competitive company. Although we have entered into non-competition and confidentiality agreements with a number of these key employees, these types of agreements may not be enforceable in China and our business may be materially adversely affected by a breach of any of these agreements. 9 We plan to acquire new businesses, products and technologies in the solar industry and diversify our business by means of mergers and acquisitions. However, we have been unable to complete a number of acquisitions that we have previously announced. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products and technologies into our Company. As a result, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. The solar industry is highly competitive and has experienced a significant amount of consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue. We plan to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and technologies in the future, and we also intend to diversify our business through mergers and acquisitions. In October 2009, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with China Technology Solar Power Holdings Limited, or CTSPHL Group, and its direct and indirect shareholders to acquire a 51% equity interest in CTSPHL Group. CTSPHL Group was developing a 100 megawatt grid-connected solar power plant project in Delingha City located in Qaidam Basin in Qinghai Province, Northwestern China. Upon execution of the stock purchase agreement, we paid US$3 million in cash to Good Million Investments Ltd., the direct shareholder of CTSPHL Group, as a deposit for the transaction. Completion of the proposed transaction was subject to a number of conditions, including receipt of an independent valuation report. However, due to the fact that the Chinese government did not determine the specific subsidies and incentives for on-grid solar energy applications for Qinghai Province, we encountered difficulties in determining the fair value of the solar power plant. As a result, on October 11, 2010, we entered into an agreement with CTSPHL Group to terminate the stock purchase agreement. Pursuant to this termination agreement and subsequent amendments, CTSPHL Group was required to repay the cash advance to us in installments by August 31, 2011. We received the first installment payment of US$1 million in June 2011 and entered into a deed of share charge with Good Million Investments Ltd. on June 27, 2011 to secure the repayment of the remaining US$2 million. Due to Good Million Investments Ltd.’s failure to repay the remaining US$2 million by August 31, 2011, we enforced the security created by the deed and, as a result, we acquired 29,433,962 shares of a Hong Kong listed company with stock code 08111. In April 2010, we entered into a cooperation framework agreement with Xintang Media Technology (Beijing) Limited, or Xintang, its shareholders and associated companies, pursuant to which we intended to acquire Xintang. Xintang is a Chinese company that conducts advertising and media business in China. Xinhua News Agency has granted Xintang exclusive rights to operate an advertising network and other relevant value-added business using flat-panel displays installed in lobbies, offices, elevators and other public areas in governmental buildings in certain provinces in China. We paid approximately Renminbi 10 million to Xintang and its shareholders. The completion of this acquisition was contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including a fair value determination by an international independent appraiser, completion of restructuring of the target companies, execution of advertising and media business cooperation arrangements between Xintang and Xinhua News Agency and approval from our shareholders in a general meeting. Since these conditions precedent have not been satisfied, however, the parties agreed not to proceed with the transactions. In 2010, our board of directors determined to terminate the cooperation framework agreement. However, we have not agreed upon the terms and conditions of the termination with Xintang’s shareholders, and we may suffer a loss of our entire prepayment. As a result, we recorded a full impairment loss against the carrying amount on our Statement of Operations in 2010. Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make will involve a number of risks, and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions and we may also suffer additional losses. As a result, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. In the event that an acquired company does not perform as anticipated, we could be required to incur a significant impairment of goodwill and other acquired assets. Any impairment of goodwill and other acquired assets may adversely and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may finance these transactions by using our available cash and/or issuing common stock, which could result in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we may incur or assume the acquired company’s liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown at the time of acquisition, which may result in a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may encounter problems integrating any acquired businesses, including: • difficulties assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of any acquired business; • diversion of management attention to business concerns of the acquired business from that of our existing operations; • declining employee morale and retention issues for employees of the acquired business; • risk of litigation by terminated employees and contractors; and • our lack of familiarity with other conditions and business practices of the acquired business. Any failure to successfully integrate any acquired business could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 A significant reduction or discontinuation of government subsidies and economic incentives or change in government policies may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our products and services is affected by government policies for solar industry and the subsidies and incentives promulgated thereunder. Currently, the cost of generating electricity from solar power exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed for the foreseeable future, the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. Therefore, without government incentives, the solar power markets would not be commercially viable in many countries where we are currently, or intend to become, active, such as Germany, Italy, Spain, the United Sates and China. However, the scheme of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental concerns in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energies in such country. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether, which will result in a decline of demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be adversely affected by volatile market and industry trends. In particular, the credit risk of our customers may materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are affected by solar energy market and industry trends. We have historically required our customers to make an advance payment of a certain percentage of their orders, a business practice that helped us to manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we needed to finance our working capital requirements. In line with market trends, this practice of requiring our customers to make advance payments is on the decline, which in turn has increased our exposure to the credit risks of our customers. In 2011, we believe a majority of our revenues were derived from credit sales, generally with payment schedules due according to negotiated contracts. Given the current economic uncertainty in Europe, particularly the tightening of the credit markets, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to get financing from banks on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products. Even if the demand remains, the decrease in the availability of financing may result in our customers’ failure to meet their payment obligations and we don’t have an insurance scheme in place to cover such trade risk, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a significant portion of our PV modules to a limited number of customers. In 2011, our top 4 customers represented approximately 96.6% of our revenues. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, loss of one or more of our significant customers may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We have granted, and expect to continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive option plan, which could adversely impact our financial results. We have adopted various stock option plans to provide incentives to our directors, employees and consultants. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of 5,674,465 stock options outstanding under our option plans held by directors, officers, employees and consultants. In our consolidated financial statements, we are required to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense being recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expense associated with share-based compensation may adversely impact our financial results and reduce the attractiveness of stock options as compensation to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. If we do not offer sufficient equity compensation to our directors, officers, employees or consultants, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties and any expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We rely on applicable trademark and copyright laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights in China. We have filed two patent applications and intend to seek additional patents as we deem appropriate. We do not know whether patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Even if patents are issued, we do not know whether any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to effectively limit competition against us. Furthermore, any patents that may be issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology and products is difficult. 11 Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in technological industries in China are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in China do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited business insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business disruption, litigation or natural disasters. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risk of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance are prohibitive. As a result, except for directors and officers liability insurance, employees’ compensation insurance and social insurance, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We may incur loss resulting from holding marketable securities We have been holding marketable securities that have been subject to a continuous decline in value, and we recorded impairment losses in 2010 and 2011. The decline in value of these securities has continued in 2012, and we incurred an additional loss of Rmb4.63 million as of April 24, 2012. Risks Associated with Business Operation in China. A substantial majority of our assets are located in China, and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. We are subject to risks relating to changes of political and economic policies and conditions in China. China has been, and will continue to be, our primary production base and a substantial majority of our assets are currently located in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, control of foreign currencies and allocation of resources. While the government has been pursuing economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a substantial part of China’s economy is still being operated under various controls of the Chinese government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, the Chinese government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of industries. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the Chinese government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved over time. Such refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. Our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the economic and social conditions and in the policies of the Chinese government, including the following: • changes in government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar industry; • adjustments in tax regulations; • restrictions on currency conversion; • changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation; • the imposition of confiscatory taxation; • restrictions on imports and sources of supply; • devaluations of currency; and • the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization, we do not know whether the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies or will alter these policies. 12 We may experience foreign currency losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates. A substantial portion of our sales is currently denominated in Euros and U.S. dollars, with the remainder in Renminbi, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and Euro, have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. We rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. In China, the Chinese government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies that are required for current account transactions, such as the payment of dividends to shareholders of foreign invested enterprises like us, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. Chinese companies are required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks, and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts our business operations, and a change in any of these government policies could further negatively impact our operations. The Chinese government recently signaled a return to a managed appreciation of the Renminbi against the dollar. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to use some hedging instruments in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, our experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. Our current business operations may be subject to the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws by courts or governmental agencies. The resolution of any such matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to enact specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by Chinese government directives and regulations. Growth of the solar energy market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Until the Chinese government’s subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid and off-grid solar energy applications for specific provinces and regions are determined, we are not able to predict the future demand, if any, for our products. Globally speaking, the growth of many large solar markets, including Germany, Spain and the United States, depends in part on the availability and amounts of government subsidies and economic incentives. In China, the solar market is still in the early development stage and the Chinese government subsidies policies or other incentive programs have not been clearly specified. Although incentive policy trends, such as special government funding and tax credits, are emerging, significant uncertainty still exists. The Chinese government may decide to reduce or eliminate any of these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Any reduction or elimination of these subsidies or incentives would have a materially adverse impact to the solar energy market in China and our financial performance. 13 The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who has not been inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Auditors of companies that are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors have not been inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors, As a result, our investors do not have the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditors’ audit procedures or quality control procedures compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Accordingly, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Associated with Investing in Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of US$2.61 to a low of US$0.57 during the period from January 1, 2011 to April 24 2012. On April 24, 2012, the closing price of our common stock on Nasdaq was US$0.75 per share. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price of our common stock to change substantially. In addition, many factors that we cannot control affect our stock price, including the global financial markets and the confidence of the investment community. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock trades. Accordingly, we expect that the price for our common stock on Nasdaq will continue to be volatile in the future. We have received a deficiency notice from Nasdaq. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares and the value of your investment may be adversely affected. On December 1, 2011, we received a NASDAQ Staff deficiency letter indicating that, for the previous thirty consecutive business days, the closing bid price of our common stock was below the minimum $1.00 per share and that, as a result, we no longer met The NASDAQ Capital Market’s minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). Under the Listing Rules, we were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until May 29, 2012, to regain compliance. If at any time before May 29, 2012, the closing bid price of our common stock is at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, we will regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In the event we do not regain compliance by May 29, 2012, we may be eligible for an additional 180 calendar day grace period, provided that we meet all initial listing standards for The NASDAQ Capital Market other than the minimum bid price requirement. However, there can be no assurance the Staff would grant additional grace period. We intend to monitor the bid price of our common stock and consider available options (including, without limitation, a reverse stock split) if our common stock does not trade at a level likely to result in the Company regaining compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price rule by May 29, 2012. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as OTC Pink, OTCQX, OTCQB or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading would reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the value of our common stock. Our internal controls have been deficient historically and require improvement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the US securities laws and, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, are required to include our management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. In addition, if we’re classified as accelerated filer or large accelerated filer, as defined by the SEC, in future years, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. 14 As of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which are described in more detail in Item 15T “Controls and Procedures.” We plan to take steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, if we are unable to address the existing deficiencies in our existing internal and disclosure controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. We could also become subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions by regulators such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have issued a significant number of shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with the following transactions: • In September 2008, we issued an aggregate of 498,338 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 1,526,306 shares of common stock to investors. In June 2009, we issued an additional 60,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 90,000 shares of common stock to the same investors. In October 2009, we issued 222,821 shares to the investors upon their exercise of Series B Warrants due to the occurrence of the price reset event. If we issue common stock at a price less than $3.01 per share in the future, we may trigger the anti-dilution provisions embedded in these warrants. • In April 2009, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, China Green Holdings Ltd., issued a US$10.0 million convertible note to an investor. In November 2009, the investor exchanged the entire principal amount of the convertible note for 3,322,260 shares of our common stock. • In May 2010, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of common stock to China Wanhe Investment Ltd. at a price of $3.01 per share in connection with a private placement. • In November 2010, we issued and allotted a total of 1,064,827 shares of common stock to Mr. Liao Lin-Hsiang and Goldpoly Company Limited as payment for the acquisition of Linsun Renewable Energy Corporation Limited and its subsidiaries. We may require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions or other future developments, and we may need to obtain additional funds through issuance by us or by one or more of our subsidiaries of new equity or debt securities. We have an effective registration statement on Form F-3 pursuant to which we may offer and sell common stock at any time and from time to time in one or more offerings for a maximum aggregate offering price of up to US$30.0 million. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or convertible debt securities in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock or convertible debt securities. Rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law may be less than those of shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most United States jurisdictions. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than you might have as a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, in most United States jurisdictions, directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders, including a duty of care, pursuant to which directors must properly apprise themselves of all reasonably available information, and a duty of loyalty, pursuant to which they must protect the interests of the corporation and refrain from conduct that injures the corporation or its shareholders or that deprives the corporation or its shareholders of any profit or advantage. Many United States jurisdictions have enacted various statutory provisions which permit the monetary liability of directors to be eliminated or limited. Under British Virgin Islands law, liability of a corporate director to the corporation is basically limited to cases of willful malfeasance in the performance of his duties or to cases where the director has not acted honestly and in good faith and with a view to the best interests of the corporation. 15 We do not know whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. As a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. securities laws, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we are exempt from compliance with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans (including those in which our officers or directors may participate), stock issuances that will result in a change in control, the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares or below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have partially complied with the foregoing rules and we may voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions in the future. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under applicable US securities laws for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer for purposes of US securities laws. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the provisions of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the provisions of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. 