ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may differ materially from past results and from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K due to various uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those set forth below, one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. Our work on large program efforts presents a risk to revenue and profit growth and sustainability. The eventual expiration of large programs, or the loss of or disruption of revenues on a single contract, presents the potential for reduced revenues and profits. Such revenue losses could also erode profits on our remaining programs that would have to absorb a larger portion of the fixed corporate costs previously allocated to the expiring programs or discontinued contract work. Our largest contract, the Rapid Response (“R2”) Program, expired in January 2011, adversely impacting our 2011 revenues and also our 2010 revenues as specific task orders under the R2 contract expired intermittently prior to the expiration of the contract. We were awarded a follow-on R2-3G contract; however, government administrative and funding issues have delayed awards under this program. Our ICRC subsidiary’s Port of Anchorage Intermodal Expansion Project (“PIEP”) has experienced declines in work levels due to funding, technical, and political issues, and there is no assurance that the work will return to previous levels. In 2011, we were awarded a follow-on contract for our Foreign Military Sales (“FMS”), and subsequent protest efforts by an unsuccessful bidder were denied in January 2012. We are awaiting a final determination regarding the award of a follow-on contract for our U.S. Department of Treasury Seized Asset Program after a U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) protest was dismissed following the U.S. Department of Treasury’s decision to take corrective action. Our WBI subsidiary managed inventory program for USPS and our Federal Group ELD equipment refurbishment contract for the U. S. Army Reserve also provide significant amounts of revenues and profits, which if interrupted, could adversely impact our overall company financial performance. Uncertain and shifting federal government priorities could delay contract awards and funding and adversely affect our ability to continue work on our government contracts. Additionally, federal procurement directives could result in a loss of work on current programs to set-asides and large multiple award contracts. Our business is subject to funding delays, terminations, reductions, extensions, and moratoriums caused by the government's contracting process. The current federal procurement environment is unpredictable and could adversely affect our ability to perform work on new and existing contracts. Contract award and funding delays extend across the federal technical services industry. We experienced delays in contract awards and funding on our contracts during 2010 and 2011 that have impacted our ability to continue existing work and to replace expiring work. Additionally, our government business is subject to the risk that one or more of our potential contracts or contract extensions may be awarded by the contracting agency to a small or disadvantaged or minority-owned business pursuant to set-aside programs administered by the Small Business Administration, or may be bundled into large multiple award contracts for very large businesses. These risks can potentially have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profit margins. The nature of our operations and work performed by our employees present certain challenges related to work force management. Our financial performance is heavily dependent on the abilities of our operating and administrative staffs with respect to technical skills, operating performance, pricing, cost management, safety, and administrative and compliance efforts. A wide diversity of contract types, nature of work, work locations, and legal and regulatory complexities challenges our administrative staff and skill sets. We also face challenges associated with our quality of workforce, quality of work, safety, and labor relations compliance. Our current and projected work in foreign countries exposes us to challenges associated with export compliance, local laws and customs, workforce issues, extended supply chain, and war zone threats. Failure to attract or retain an adequately skilled workforce, lack of knowledge or training in critical functions, or inadequate staffing levels can result in lost work, reduced profit margins, losses from cost overruns, performance deficiencies, workplace accidents, and regulatory non-compliance. 9 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the government. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations that could expose us to potential liabilities or loss of work. Additionally, we are exposed to contractual and financial liabilities if our subcontractors do not perform satisfactorily. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of government contracts. Additionally, we are responsible for subcontractor compliance with these laws and regulations. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs to us. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are significantly more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the government may terminate any government contract or subcontract at its convenience, as well as for performance default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, the government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of services provided by us as a subcontractor. Additionally, a significant percentage of our contract work is performed by subcontractors, which are subject to government compliance, performance and financial risks. If unsatisfactory performance or compliance failure occurs on the part of subcontractors, we must bear the cost to remedy these deficiencies on our prime contracts. Increased market competition resulting from decreases in government spending for contract services could affect our ability to sustain our revenue levels. Continuing pressure on government budgets may significantly impact the flow of work to federal contractors, particularly new programs. Accordingly, competitor contractors that experience a loss of government work may tend to redirect their marketing efforts toward the types of work performed by us. This increase in competition for our service offerings could potentially affect our ability to win new work or to win successor contracts to continue work that is currently performed by us under expiring contracts. Furthermore, disappointed bidders frequently protest which can either reverse or delay contract awards. 10 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by incidents that could cause an interruption in our operations. Disruption of our operations due to internal or external system or service failures, accidents or incidents involving employees or third parties working in high-risk locations, or natural disasters or other crises could adversely impact our financial performance. Acquisitions have been a part of our business strategy in recent years. This presents certain risks. The decision to acquire a company that does not meet expected operating and financial performance targets, the ineffective integration of an acquisition, or the inability of our company to service debt associated with making an acquisition could potentially adversely impact our financial performance. Global economic conditions and political factors could adversely affect revenues on current programs. Revenues from our programs for which work is performed in foreign countries are subject to political risks posed by ongoing foreign conflicts and potential terrorist activity. A significant amount of our revenues in recent years resulted from the U.S. military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the winding down of this U.S. military involvement has adversely impacted our revenues. Similarly, political unrest in Egypt has decreased our revenues in 2011 and further political unrest in Egypt or potential changes in the political landscapes in other countries could potentially impact future revenues. International tensions can also affect our work on U.S. Navy ships when they are deployed outside of U.S. Navy facilities and are unavailable for maintenance work during those times. Adverse results arising from these global economic and political risks could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Environmental and pollution risks could potentially impact our financial results. We are exposed to certain environmental and pollution risks due to the nature of some of the contract work we perform. Costs associated with pollution clean-up efforts and environmental regulatory compliance have not yet had a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, the occurrence of a future environmental or pollution event could potentially have an adverse impact. Investments in facilities could cause losses if certain work is disrupted or discontinued. We have made investments in facilities and lease commitments to support specific business programs, work requirements, and service offerings. A slowing or disruption of these business programs, work requirements, or service offerings that results in operating below intended levels could cause us to suffer financial losses. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect financial results and financial position. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”) arise from new and revised guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. These changes could result in unanticipated effects on results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 