D. Risk factors. The following matters and other additional risks not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects, financial or otherwise. Reference to this cautionary statement in the context of a forward-looking statement or statements shall be deemed to be a statement that any one or more of the following factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statement or statements. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report before deciding to invest in the Company. 5 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report contain forward-looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are found in this Item 3, Item 4, Item 5 and other sections in which the future prospects of the Company are discussed. These statements include information concerning: • our ability to achieve or sustain profitability in the rapidly changing Internet and nutraceutical market in which we operate; • our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products and technologies; • our ability to keep pace with the rapidly changing technology and products in the market we operate; • our ability to achieve our future pricing strategies or policies; • our ability to achieve our plans to expand our sales; • our ability to achieve our plans to diversify our sources of revenues industry; • our ability to respond to competition in the China market; • our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property. You can identify these statements by forward-looking terminology such as “anticipate”, “expect”, “believe”, “goal”, “plan”, “intend”, “estimate”, “may”, “can”, “could”, “will” and “would” or similar words. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those described in this Item 3 and elsewhere in this annual report that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. “CTDC”, “Company”, “us” or “we” refer to China Technology Development Group Corporation. The term “you” refers to holders of our common stock. (a) Risks Associated with Our Business (1) We have limited operating history and evolving business model and strategy. We have limited experience in the businesses that we are currently involved, including the network security and nutraceutical products. We were originally engaged in the sanitary wares and ceramic tiles manufacturing business, which was changed to the Internet related business in June 2000 and then the addition of nutraceutical related business in October 2005. For Internet related business, we started with a focus on system integration services (“SI”). In 2001, SI was terminated due to very keen competition and a low profit margin. We then positioned ourselves as a network security services provider and started developing our own products. Major development of our existing products were completed in 2002 and certificates for these products were obtained from the Police Bureau, Security Bureau, etc in subsequent months. Our nutraceutical related business is operated by the CNT and its subsidiaries which was newly acquired by us in October 2005. The business comprised commercializing the unique techniques of various types of bamboo extracts. As of August 28, 2006, there have been ten (10) patents filed in China, three (3) of them have been approved. Both network security market and nutraceutical product market of China are rapidly evolving. We lack experience in managing these new markets. We are planning to strengthen the sales and marketing function to minimize this risk, such as, active participation in exhibitions, recruitments of qualified sales team and interview of senior management of customers. However, we cannot assure you that we will finally succeed 6 Table of Contents in meeting customers’ needs in these markets. If we fail to modify our business model or strategy to adapt to these market changes, our business financial condition and results of operations may suffer. (2) We have continued to incur operating losses and we cannot provide assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses in the preceding five years as follows: Year Operating loss (in thousands of Rmb) 2001 (12,751 ) 2002 (15,105 ) 2003 (4,378 ) 2004 (10,779 ) 2005 (17,886 ) The rapidly evolving Internet market and the newly acquired nutraceutical business in which we operate have made it difficult for us to estimate our future performance and profitability. We cannot give any assurances that operating losses will not increase in the future because our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: - our ability to obtain timely and accurate user sales information; - the effectiveness of our distribution channel; - product upgrading or updating progress by us or our competitors; - the mix of products sold; - our competitors’ price changes; - our research and development and marketing abilities; - our acquisition costs of new technology or businesses; - employee wage pressure arising from increased competition for skilled employees and increased governmental staff welfare regulations; - extraordinary costs incurred for acquisitions or any reductions in work force, if any; The above factors make predicting revenues more difficult and may adversely affect our performance and profitability. Although we believe new or additional sales contracts may be entered into in the future, there is no assurance that these contracts can be successfully executed, or even if successfully executed, we may not be able to control our costs effectively. The operating results would be materially adversely affected in case the contracts are not successfully obtained and costs are not effectively controlled. (3) We may not be competitive and increased competition could seriously harm our business. Many of our competitors in the fast growing network and nutraceutical market in China have one or more of the following advantages over us: • Longer operating history; • Greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources; • Greater profitability in their operations; • Superior product functionality in certain areas; 7 Table of Contents • Greater name recognition; • A broader range of products to offer; and • A larger base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products, which may result in increased competition. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. With China entering into World Trade Organization (WTO), more and more foreign companies are entering into network and nutraceutical market in China. They also impose great potential competition to our business. (4) We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses, products and technologies. As a component of our business and growth strategy, we intend to acquire companies, products and technologies that we feel will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability. The acquisitions may result in use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of common stock, amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and annual impairment of goodwill on acquisition, each of these could materially adversely affect our results. We may also encounter problems in implementing effective controls over acquired businesses, including: • the difficulties of integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of the acquired business; including the implementation of controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a listed company at the acquired business that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, policies and procedures, particularly if the acquired business will exist as a separate line of business of us or as a subsidiary not wholly owned by us. • the diversion of management attention to business concerns of the acquired business from that of our existing operation. • declining employee morale and retention issues for employees in the acquired business. • the risk of litigation by terminated employees and contractors. • our lack of familiarly with other conditions and business practices of the acquired business. The acquisition implementation process may last longer than one financial reporting period. Any failure in such implementation may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. (5) We have experienced deficiencies in our ability to integrate a newly acquired business. In December 2005, after the acquisition of the remaining 49% of CNT, we proposed to strengthen internal controls at Anji Bio, a 93.67% subsidiary of Zhejiang Innoessen, the 71.43% subsidiary of the newly acquired CNT. However, we faced resistance from Mr. Hu Linfu(“Mr. Hu”), the then general manager of Anji Bio, and Mdm. Chen Shuizhen (“Mdm. Chan”), the wife of Mr. Hu and the minority shareholder of Anji Bio (collectively, the “Anji Buyers”). Consequently, the Anji Buyers refused to provide financial statements and prohibited the access by staff sent by the Company at the site of Anji Bio. Having reviewed the situation and expected that the future smooth control of Anji Bio would potentially cause the Company to incur significant costs, management decided to dispose of our entire interest in Anji Bio and started the negotiation of disposal with the Anji Buyers. At such time, we also terminated Mr. Hu as the general manager of Anji Bio. Following the termination of Mr. Hu, the Anji Buyers filed litigation against Zhejiang Innoessen to the People’s Court of Anji County (the “Anji Court”). In the litigation, the Anji Buyers requested the Anji Court to rule that the termination of the service of Mr. Hu was unlawful and further requested the Anji Court to order the Company to pay Mr. Hu, an economic compensation of Rmb 50,000 for such unlawful termination. The Company restarted its negotiation with the Anji Buyers in July 2006 and entered into a memorandum with the Anji Buyers on July 27, 2006 in relation to the potential disposal of Anji Bio. (the “Anji Memorandum”) (filed as Exhibit 10.6 hereto). Upon the execution of the Anji Memorandum, Zhejiang Innoessen and the Anji Buyers mutually applied to the Anji County to delay the litigation. Our disputes with the Anji Buyers has had significant effects on our operations, including the late submission of financial information to PricewaterhouseCoopers, our independent registered public accounting firm which finally lead to late commencement of our audit and thus the late filing of this Annual Report. Because of the late filing of this Annual Report, we face the risk of delisting from Nasdaq. We 8 Table of Contents may also face resuming litigation with the Anji Buyers. We believe that our proposed disposal of Anji Bio will cause us to incur additional capital expenditures because we will need to invest in a new plant facility to replace the Anji Bio facility in order to enable us to maintain the Company’s productivity. Substantial legal costs may also be incurred as a result of the litigation with the Anji Buyers in case the final settlement with the Anji Buyers is not successful. Currently the Anji Bio is the main production base of the Group. In case the proposed disposal is completed and new plant facility to replace the Anji Bio facility is not successfully found, we may face the risk of having no production facility. Our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely mutually affected. (6) We may face risks in retaining current employees. Many of our key employees are located in areas and have skills in fields where there is high worker mobility and work force turnover. The departure of a large number of our key employees can be disruptive and could materially adversely impact our business, including our ability of new product development, existing products upgrading and products sales and marketing. Currently we do not have employment contracts with our key employees. We expect to rely, and will continue to rely, on a number of key technical and management employees. We can make no assurance that we will be able to hire, motivate and retain highly effective key employees. If any of our key employees leave, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Besides, we currently do not use our own employees or members of our management team to operate certain of our operating subsidiaries. Key management at these companies has been in place for several years and has established solid relationships with their customers. Competition in our industry for executive-level personnel is strong and we can make no assurance that we will be able to retain the highly effective executive employees. Although we plan to provide incentives to management to stay with the acquired business, we have not entered into agreements with them. If such key persons were to resign we might face impairment of relationships with remaining employees or customers, which might result in further resignation by employees, and might cause long-term clients to terminate their relationship with us. Furthermore, we have not entered into any non-competition and confidentiality agreements with these employees and management. Due to the limited enforceability of these types of agreements in China, we face the risk that employees of the operating subsidiary might divulge our protected intellectual property or trade secrets to competitors. (7) We are subject to risks of excessive reliance on certain significant customers and risks of non-recurring contracts and cost controls. For our network security business, the two largest customers in 2005 accounted for over 38.3% of our total sales, compared to 79.9 % of its 2004 total sales of the segment. For our nutraceutical business, the two largest customers in 2005 accounted for over 59.8% of our total sales. Although we believe that we have maintained good relationships with these customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain good relationships with these customers. A loss of one or both of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Prior to 2004, a substantial portion of our contracts signed by our subsidiary — BBHL were short-term, individual and non-recurring. In 2004, we attempted to improve this situation by seeking longer term contracts: (a) On March 14, 2003, we had entered into a three years long term contract with the Legend Group (subsequently renamed the Lenovo Group). 9 Table of Contents The sales to Legend Group amounted to Rmb1.3 million in 2003, Rmb 0.68 million in 2004 and Rmb 2.47 million in 2005, representing respectively, 15.2%, 58.6% and 38.3% of the revenues of BBHL of the year. The contract with the Legend Group had expired in March 2006. We are currently negotiating the renewal of the contract and sales with the Legend Group since the expiry of the old contract are conducted on individual basis. (b) On February 10, 2005, we had entered into a two years’ contract with the Legendsec (Beijing) Limited (“Legendsec”) at exactly the same terms of the Legend Group; (c) We acquired Zhejiang Innoessen, a 71.43% subsidiary of CNT in October 2005 which had an existing long term contract with the China New Era Health Industry Group Limited (“New Era”). The sales made by our Nutraceutical Operations to New Era in the 2004 and 2005 Period amounted to Rmb1.32 million and Rmb2.86 million, representing respectively 42.1% and 54.7% of the total revenues of our Nutraceutical Operations. We cannot assure you that these contracts can be maintained successfully or what level of sales will be generated under these contracts. Any failure in maintaining the contract could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues, Besides, any additional changes in the contract terms could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 10 Table of Contents (8) We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the market, new competition, and new product developments. The markets in which our business are involved are highly fragmented and characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. Our success will depend on our ability to: - provide a broad range of network security, network management software products and nutraceutical products; - timely develop and introduce new products with technological advances; - respond promptly to new customer requirements; - comply promptly with evolving industry standards; - provide upgrades and updates to users frequently at the lowest costs; and - maintain compatibility of our products with popular operating systems and develop products that are compatible with new or otherwise emerging operating systems. Our product enhancements or new products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. New products with new technological capabilities could replace or shorten the life cycle of our products or cause our customers to defer or cancel purchases of our existing products. Our Technology is subject to the risk of obsolence. Our product development efforts are impacted by the adoption or evolution of forthcoming industry standards. As industry standards are adopted or evolve, we may have to modify existing products or develop and support new versions of existing products. In addition, if an industry standard does not develop, our products and our competitors’ products could be incompatible, which could prevent or delay overall development of the market for a particular product. If our products fail to comply with existing or evolving industry standards in a timely fashion, if any in the future, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to upgrade and update existing product offerings, modify and enhance acquired products and introduce new products, which meet our customers’ needs. Future upgrades and updates may include additional functionality, response to user problems or address compatibility problems with changing environments. We believe that our ability to provide these upgrades and updates frequently and at low costs is key to our success. Failure to release upgrades and updates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to introduce in a timely manner new products that are compatible with requirements preferred by users would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. (9) We do not intend to pay dividends. Payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. (10) We are subject to risk of computer hackers’ attacks. Following the increase in computer crimes in China, computer hackers may create viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our products. Although no such event has occurred or been discovered to date, the adverse impact arising from any virus sabotage or attacks cannot be ignored. If sabotage or attacks on our products 11 Table of Contents do happen, our customers’ computer systems could be seriously damaged. Consequently, our business will be adversely impacted as a result of our impaired professional image. (11) Our subsidiaries are subject to termination. Our agreements for our 76% held, 71.43% held and 93.67% held subsidiaries, respectively BBHL, Zhejiang Innoessen and Anji Bio, provides for an initial term of 50 years, 20 years and 10 years respectively. Following the Anji Memorandum, upon the completion, Anji Bio may be disposed and thus its term may be less than the initial term. In the event the term of agreements is not extended, the subsidiaries will be dissolved and liquidated pursuant to the provisions of the applicable law and the applicable agreements. In addition, subsidiaries may be terminated prior to the expiration of the agreements upon the occurrence of certain events, including without limitation, the inability of the enterprise to conduct its business due to financial losses or a breach of the agreements by one of the parties. (12) We may not be able to adequately control the business of our subsidiaries. We have experienced integration issues with one of our subsidiaries. We may not be as effective in providing and maintaining control over our operating subsidiaries and their business operations as direct or indirect owners of these businesses. We may not be able to take control of the operating subsidiary upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the imposition of statutory liens, judgments, court orders, death or capacity. Furthermore, if the operating subsidiary fails to perform as required, we will have to rely on the Chinese legal system to enforce our rights and due to the uncertainties that exist under Chinese Law about the structure of our organization, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in an enforcement action. In addition, the Chinese government may propose new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current relationships with our operating subsidiaries, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We experienced problems while attempting to integrate Anji Bio as mentioned in the fourth and fifth paragraphs of the fourth risk factor under the subheading “Risks-Associated with Our Business”. The delayed preparation of our financial statements and the delayed filing of our Annual Report and the possible delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq have resulted from our integration problems with Anji Bio. The potential disposal of Anji Bio to the Anji Buyers in accordance with the terms of the Anji Memorandum will likely result in the incurrence by the Company of additional capital expenditures in order to restore its production capacity. In addition, substantial legal costs may result from litigations with Anji Buyers. As of date we do not have similar problems with any of our other subsidiaries, however we cannot be certain that such an incident may not recur. (13) We may fail to consummate the settlement with the Anji Buyers. Pursuant to the Anji Memorandum dated July 27, 2006, we have to complete the disposal of the Anji Bio before September 30, 2006. We cannot assure you that settlement can be completed on time. We may face the resuming of litigation and further diversion of our resources in dealing with the litigations which eventually may cause material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. (14) We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies. We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, which will require us to introduce more technological products through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions. Some of these strategies relate to new technological products for which there are no established markets in China, or relate to technological 12 Table of Contents products in which we lack experience and expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new technological products on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementation of our strategies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. (15) We may face difficulties in implementing our acquisition strategy, including identifying suitable opportunities and integrating them with our existing operations. As part of our business strategy, we intend to use partnerships and acquisitions to facilitate the introduction of new service offerings as well as to add capabilities that we do not currently have. For example, we may consider acquiring or entering into partnerships with firms that specialize in unique technology where expertise is not easily obtained. However, our ability to implement this strategy will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract and reach agreement with acquisition candidates or joint venture partners on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. In addition, the benefits of a partnership, acquisition or joint venture transaction may take considerable time to develop, and there is no assurance that any particular partnership, acquisition or joint venture will produce the intended benefits. For example, we may experience difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our existing operations and personnel. The identification and completion of these transactions may require us to expend significant management time and resources. Moreover, the partnership, acquisition and joint venture strategies we pursue could also cause earnings or ownership dilution to our shareholders’ interests, which could result in losses to investors. (16) Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We rely on applicable trademark and copyright laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights in China. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of China and foreign patents and patent applications, and intend to seek additional patents as we deem appropriate. Whether patents will be issued for any of our pending applications or even if patents are issued, it is uncertain that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to effectively limit competition against us. Furthermore, any patents that may be issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation may result from our use of registered trademarks or common law marks and, if litigation against us were successful, a resulting loss of the right to use a trademark could reduce sales of our products and could result in a significant damage award. Although we intend to defend the proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology and products is difficult. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. Besides, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in technological industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in China do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. (17) Because there is limited business insurance coverage in China, any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 13 Table of Contents The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make having such insurance impractical for us. As a result, except for directors and officers insurance, employees’ compensation insurance and fire insurance we do not have any other business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. (18) We are subject to risks of acquisition of new business, products and technologies. Our Internet Security and nutraceutical industries are highly competitive. They have experienced, and are expected to continue to experience, a significant amount of consolidation. It is one of our growth strategies to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and technologies in future. However, a number of companies, many of which have greater financial resources, marketing capabilities and research and development capacities than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce. These industries are characterized by extensive and ongoing research efforts. Other competitors may succeed in developing products superior to those we market. It may be difficult for us to maintain or increase sales volume and market share due to keep competiton and may have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Beside, our acquisitions and strategic investments involve a number of risks and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions. We may lose all or a portion of our investment. Our available cash and securities may be used to buy or invest in companies or products, which could result in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we may have to incur or assume the acquiree’s liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown at the time of acquisition, which may result in a material adverse effect on us. In the event that the acquiree does not perform as anticipated, we would be required to incur a significant impairment of goodwill. Any impairment of goodwill may adversely and materially affect our results of operations and financial conditions. (19) We may need additional financing. Our business currently has limited amounts of capital. The existing capital is only sufficient for maintaining our current level of business. As we increase our sales and expand our business or follow our intended growth strategy through continuous acquisitions of new businesses, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. If we need to pay higher than anticipated costs for additional financing, our results of operations or financial conditions may be materially and adversely affected. Besides, upon new shares issued for financing or acquisition purposes, interests of existing shareholders will also be diluted. (b) Risks Associated with China A substantial majority of our assets are located in China and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. (1) We are subject to risks relating to operating a business in China. We may face foreign competition as a result of China’s entry into the WTO. China formally became a member of the WTO in 2002. China is required to reduce tariffs and to eliminate other trade restrictions, which may lead to increased foreign investment and foreign competition in China’s markets from international companies and the impact of which on China’s economy and our business would remain uncertain. The foreign competitors are usually characterized by better research and development and financial backup who can bear a longer period of net operating loss and have larger scaled marketing campaign. Even with locally developed products occupying the majority of the existing market share, we cannot assure you that this strength will be maintained, particularly when foreign competitors form joint ventures with certain local competitors. Any success in increasing market share by foreign competitors will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience foreign currency losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Chinese government controls the conversion of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi. We must rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. In 2005 and 2004, respectively 100% and 40.8% of our total revenue was received in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for current account transactions, such as the payment of dividends to shareholders to foreign invested enterprises such as ourselves, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. For example, due to the recent devaluation of the U.S. dollar against other reserve currencies, as well as pressure from a number of other governments (including the United States), the Chinese government has indicated that it may adjust the current rate at which Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchanges are fixed, as well as reevaluate its decades-old policy of using a fixed-rate regime to govern foreign currency transactions, although the Chinese government has not committed itself to take any such action currently. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Because a significant portion of our revenue and cash operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, the laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. Due to our current business operations, we may be subject to the implementations, interpretations and enforcement of China’s laws by its courts or governmental agencies in connection with our contracts with third parties. The resolution of any such matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS’) in China, or similar adverse public health developments, such as Bird Flu (Avian Influenza), may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the Chinese government to prevent transmission of SARS. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, or a development of a similar health hazard in China, may adversely affect our business and operating results. For instance, a recurrence of SARS or the spread out of Bird Flu or any other epidemic in China may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas and negatively impact China’s economy. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents (2) Our business may be adversely affected by Chinese government regulations. Internet Security China is regulating its Internet sector through new pronouncements and regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the Chinese Internet sector, the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet and the availability of securities offerings by companies operating in the Chinese Internet sector. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the proper interpretation of current and future Chinese Internet laws and regulations. Although we believe and have been advised that many current regulations will not apply to us, we cannot assure that existing or future regulations will be interpreted differently. A majority of Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements governing the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement of what is deemed to be socially destabilizing by Chinese authorities may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. As a result, we cannot predict the actions of Chinese legal authorities, particularly with regard to the Internet and software, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of local regulations by national laws. Besides, the interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the Ministry of Information Industry and the possible new laws or regulations have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese Internet businesses. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of our existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate Chinese laws and regulations. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the Chinese Internet sector that may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our current or proposed businesses and operations. Nutraceutical Business Several government agencies in China regulate the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and the sale of nutrition, health, beauty, and weight management products. According to the Food and Health Hygiene Law of China, and health dietary supplement is subject to the inspection by the Center of Inspection of Health Dietary Supplement. The maker of the medicine needs to obtain approval from the Bureau of Health Dietary Supplement of Department of Drug Registration. There is also regulation governing the production and distribution of food ingredients and additives issued by the Ministry of Public Health of China. The test including intoxication and safety reports of the health dietary supplement. Manufacturing of health and dietary supplement must be done by facilities that have passed the inspection of GMP for Health Dietary Supplement. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant Chinese authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation, the following: - levying fines; - revoking our business license; - requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and - requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of our business. 15 Table of Contents (c) Risks Related to Our Technology and Product Research and Development (1) Inspection of Manufacturing Facilities The China regulatory agencies may periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities and certain facilities of our suppliers of our nutraceutical business. Such inspections resulted in the identification of certain minor 16 Table of Contents deficiencies. We developed and implemented action plans to remedy the deficiencies. Should these deficiencies not be remedied to the satisfaction of the regulatory body, product supply could be affected and our operating results could be adversely affected. (2) Possible Claims Relating to Products We could be exposed to possible claims for personal injury resulting from allegedly defective products manufactured by third parties with whom we have entered into manufacturing agreements or by us. We do not maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products. Therefore, we could be subject to product liability claims in excess of our financial ability. Any significant product liability claims not within the scope of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. (3) We must respond quickly and effectively to new research and developments. Our businesses are highly dependent on new products. Our failure to maintain the superiority of our research capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our future success also depends on our ability to enhance products and introduce new products to respond to changing market trends. If we are unable to successfully develop and bring to market new products in a timely manner, our competitors’ products may render ours noncompetitive or obsolete. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. (d) Risks Associated with Investing in our common stock. Stock prices of technological-related companies, particularly companies with business operations primarily in China, have fluctuated widely in recent years, which could result in substantial losses to investors. (1) Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price was volatile and ranged from a per-share high of US$14.5 to low of US$1.20 during the period from January 1, 2005 to August 31, 2006. On August 31, 2006, the closing price of our common stock was US$3.46 per share. Many factors affect our stock price which we cannot control. Our ability to meet the expectations of investors with respect to our operating and financial results may contribute to current and future stock price volatility. On February 3, 2006, the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. halted trading of our common stock at a trading price of $9.64 requesting “additional information” . The Company provided the additional information on February 6, 2006 and trading resumed at 2:15 p.m. New York Time on that date. Our stock price may be adversely affected by the performance and fluctuation of the stock prices of other technology companies with business operations mainly in China that have listed their securities in the U.S. The price and trading volume of our common stock may be highly volatile for business specific reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services and technological products could cause the market price for our common stock to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock shall trade. There is no assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. (2) Our stock may be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market On July 19, 2006, we received correspondence from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that as a result of our failure to timely file with the Securities and Exchange Commission this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq requirements for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(12). Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(12) requires us to make on a timely basis all filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as required by the Securities Exchange Act 1934, as amended. Our securities were subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market beginning at the opening of business on July 28, 2006. We have appealled the Nasdaq Staff’s determination by requesting a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, which has delayed the delisting of our common stock pending the 17 Table of Contents Panel’s review and determination. The hearing was held on September 7, 2006. We are awaiting the Panel’s determination. There can be no assurance that the Panel will grant our request for continued listing. (3) The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market in future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. (4) Rights of Shareholders under British Virgin Islands Law May Be Less Than Those of Shareholders in U.S. Jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most United States jurisdictions. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States jurisdiction. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, in most United States jurisdictions, directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders, including a duty of care, pursuant to which directors must properly apprise themselves of all reasonably available information, and a duty of loyalty, pursuant to which they must protect the interests of the corporation and refrain from conduct that injures the corporation or its shareholders or that deprives the corporation or its shareholders of any profit or advantage. Many United States jurisdictions have enacted various statutory provisions which permit the monetary liability of directors to be eliminated or limited. Under British Virgin Islands law, liability of a corporate director to the corporation is basically limited to cases of willful malfeasance in the performance of his duties or to cases where the director has not acted honestly and in good faith and with a view to the best interests of the corporation. It is unknown whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, liabilities which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. (5) Compliance with requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Our company will become subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, and will need to evaluate and test our abilities to comply with the statute as well as take such remedial actions that may be necessary to ensure our compliance. We cannot be certain that evaluations, tests and remedial actions will all be timely completed. We also do not know how compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will affect our operations. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may present us with significant challenges. In connection with their audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm, identified to our management and audit committee certain internal control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that they considered to constitute material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. See the section headed “Item 15 — Controls and Procedures”. If up to the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we are unable to effectively implement the measures necessary for our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including any remedial actions that are required to address any internal control weakness already detected by our independent registered public accounting firm, our auditors may not be able to provide us with an attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Even if our management believes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. In addition, if they are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if they interpret the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then they may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes may result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace and/or a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. We could also become subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions by regulators such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. We may also be required to incur greater than expected costs to improve our internal control processes. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. 