ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our business and any investment in us. Deterioration of economic conditions could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, access to and the functioning of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Deterioration of national or global economic conditions may reduce demand for our products and overall growth of the paints and coatings industry. Volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national or global economic conditions could impact our operations as follows: • the financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers; • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future; and • the value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including our assets held in pension plans. At various times, we utilize hedges and other derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various interest rate risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in our earnings each period. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. We purchase the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Most of our raw materials are derived from petroleum, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available from one or more suppliers on the open market. From time to time, however, the availability and costs of raw materials may fluctuate significantly, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. As a result, our raw material costs can be volatile, and we have experienced disruptions in supplies of certain raw materials at various times. These disruptions could affect our ability to manufacture products ordered by our customers, which could negatively impact sales. When raw material costs increase, our profit margins are reduced unless and until we are able to pass along the increases to our customers through higher prices. If raw material costs increase and if we are unable to pass along, or are delayed in passing along, those increases to our customers, we will experience profit margin reductions. Many of our customers are in cyclical industries, which may affect the demand for our products. Many of our customers are in businesses or industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. As a result, the demand for our products depends, in part, upon economic cycles affecting our customers’ businesses or industries and general economic conditions. Downward economic cycles affecting the industries of our customers and the deterioration of global economic conditions may reduce our sales and profitability. 3 Table of Contents The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. All aspects of the paints and coatings business are highly competitive. We face strong competitors in all areas of our business. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced margins for our products. Competitive pressures may not only impair our margins but may also impact our revenues and our growth. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. Competition with these companies could curtail price increases or require price reductions or increased spending on marketing, sales and research and development, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Industry sources estimate that the ten largest coatings manufacturers represent more than half of the world’s coatings sales. Our larger competitors may have more resources to finance acquisitions or internal growth in this competitive environment and may have more resources or capabilities to conduct business with large suppliers or large customers in our industry. Finally, many of our larger competitors operate businesses in addition to paints and coatings and so may be better able to compete during coatings industry downturns. We have a significant amount of debt. Our total long-term and short-term debt was $1,556.4 million at October 31, 2014. Our debt categorized as short-term was $606.4 million at October 31, 2014. Our level of debt may have important consequences. For example, it: • may require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • could make us less attractive to prospective or existing customers or less able to fund potential acquisitions; and • may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to a competitor that may have less indebtedness. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy, and future acquisitions may not be available or successful. Acquisitions have historically contributed significantly to the growth of our company. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and products. If we are not able to identify and complete future acquisitions, our growth may be negatively affected. Even if we are successful in completing future acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits from the acquired companies or products; • difficulties due to lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen claims and liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures or product liability; • unforeseen adjustments, charges and write-offs; • unexpected losses of customers of, or suppliers to, acquired businesses; • difficulties in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • variability in financial information arising from the application of purchase price accounting; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses; and • challenges arising from the increased geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Any of these factors may make it more difficult to repay our debt or have an adverse effect on results of operations. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition-related costs or the cost of acquired assets. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside of the U.S. We currently have production facilities, research and development facilities, and administrative and sales offices located outside the U.S., including facilities and offices located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and Vietnam. In 2014, revenues from products sold outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 46% of our consolidated net sales. 4 Table of Contents We expect sales in international markets to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. Notwithstanding the benefits of geographic diversification, our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce, and receivables may be difficult to collect or have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • foreign operations may experience labor disputes and difficulties in attracting and retaining key employees; • transportation and other shipping costs may increase; • foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises; • unexpected adverse changes may occur in export duties, quotas and tariffs and difficulties in obtaining export licenses; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency; • our business and profitability in a particular country could be affected by political or economic changes or terrorist activities and responses to such activities; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be burdensome. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. We do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to translation gains and losses. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, could materially affect our financial results. We have certain key customers, and the loss of key customers could negatively affect our business. Our relationships with certain key customers are important to us. From 2012 through 2014, sales to our largest customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated net sales. In 2014, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales. Our five largest customers in the Paints segment accounted for approximately 55% of our net sales in the segment. Although we sell various types of products through various channels of distribution, we believe that the loss of a substantial portion of net sales to our largest customers could have a material adverse impact on us. If the reputation of our company or one or more of its key brands is damaged, it could harm our business. Our reputation is one of the foundations of our relationships with key customers and other stakeholders. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues that negatively affect our reputation, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired, and our financial results could suffer. As we continue to invest in advertising and promotion for our key brands, our financial success is becoming more dependent on the success of our brands. The success of these brands could suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired effect on a brand’s image, reputation or ability to attract customers. Further, our growth and results could be harmed if the reputation of our company or a key brand is damaged due to real or perceived quality issues, product recalls, regulatory enforcement or actions or customer claims and litigation. Technology changes, and our ability to protect our technology, could affect our business. Our product and application technology is supported by underlying chemistry that has been developed over many years. Ongoing research and development efforts focus on improving our internally developed and acquired technology and formulating changes to improve the performance, profitability and cost competitiveness of our products. If our competitors develop new technology, or if our customers’ technology requirements change, and we are not able to develop competitive technology, our business and financial results could suffer. Further, although we seek to protect our proprietary technology and information 5 Table of Contents through confidentiality and trade secret protection programs and practices, patents, cybersecurity measures and other means, if we were unable to protect our material proprietary technology or information, our business and financial results could suffer. Interruption, failure or compromise of our information systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on information systems to run most aspects of our business, including sales and distribution of products, purchases of raw materials and supplies, accounting for purchase and sale transactions, manufacturing processes, billing and collections and managing data and records for employees and other parties. Our business may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged or compromised or if they fail for any extended period of time due to user errors, programming errors, computer viruses, security breaches or other problems. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber attackers. Although we strive to have appropriate security controls in place, prevention of security breaches cannot be assured, particularly as cyber threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our security measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. In addition, third-party service providers manage a portion of our information systems, and we are subject to risk as a result of interruption, failure or security breaches of those systems. The consequences of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Numerous laws and regulations affect our business. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that control the manufacturing, marketing, sale, use and disposal of our products. These laws and regulations include health, safety, product liability, environmental and labeling requirements applicable to our products and business. Environmental laws and regulations control, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances, or otherwise relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. These environmental laws and regulations impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws and regulations can also result in fines and penalties. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of our facilities and properties, and have received notices under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, or analogous state laws, of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our operations or former operations. Pursuant to health, safety, product liability and labeling laws and regulations, we have also been subject to various governmental enforcement actions and litigation by individuals relating to the sale or use of or exposure to our products or materials used or contained in our products, including claims for property damage or personal injury claimed to have been caused by our products or materials used or contained in our products. We are subject to the risk that adverse decisions relating to our compliance with existing laws and regulations and new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretation could limit our ability to generate revenues, increase our compliance costs and expand our potential liability for enforcement actions by governmental authorities and litigation by individuals. In addition, our customers’ or consumers’ perceptions about the acceptability or potential environmental or health effects of certain substances could require us to invest additional amounts to develop products that exclude those substances. If we are unable to develop products that exclude those substances when and if required by our customers, we may experience reduced sales and profitability. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 