D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which should be read in conjunction with all the other information presented in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Associated with Our Business We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. In the recent past, financial systems worldwide have experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, general widening of spreads and, in some cases, lack of price transparency on interbank lending rates. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly between 2007 and 2009, and many countries fell into recession. Although macroeconomic conditions have slightly improved in the past three years, global imbalances and risks remain. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies experienced, and some continue to experience, significant difficulties. Around the world, there have also 12 Table of Contents been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital or have been assisted by governments, and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). Increased disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers and become unable to maintain certain liability maturities. Any such increase in capital markets funding availability or costs or in deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins and liquidity. In particular, we may face, among others, the following economic risks: · Increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation will increase our costs and may affect the pricing for our products and services and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Reduced demand for our products and services. · Inability of our borrowers to timely or fully comply with their existing obligations. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The degree of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process and the sufficiency of our loan loss allowances. · The value and liquidity of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. · Any worsening of global economic conditions may delay the recovery of the international financial industry and impact our financial condition and results of operations. · The recoverability of our retail loans in particular may be increasingly vulnerable to macroeconomic shocks that could negatively impact the household income of our retail customers and result in increased loan losses. Credit, market and liquidity risk may have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and our cost of funds. Any downgrading in Chile’s, our controlling shareholders or our credit rating would likely increase our cost of funding, require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts and adversely affect our interest margins and results of operations. Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, conditions that affect the financial services industry generally and the economic environment in which the company operates. In addition, due to the methodology of the main rating agencies, our credit rating is affected by the rating of Chile’s sovereign debt. If Chile’s sovereign debt is downgraded, our credit rating would also likely be downgraded by an equivalent amount. In addition, our ratings may be adversely affected by any downgrade in the ratings of our parent company, Santander Spain. The long-term debt of Santander Spain is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies—Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service España, S.A., (“Moody’s”) BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) and A- by Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”)—all of which have a stable outlook due to the gradual economic improvement in Spain. Any downgrade in our debt credit ratings would likely increase our borrowing costs and require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts, and could limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect our commercial business. For example, a ratings downgrade could adversely affect our ability to sell or market certain of our products, engage in certain longer-term and derivatives transactions and retain our customers, particularly customers who need a minimum rating threshold in order to invest. In 13 Table of Contents addition, under the terms of certain of our derivative contracts, we may be required to maintain a minimum credit rating or terminate such contracts. Any of these results of a ratings downgrade, in turn, could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on us, including our operating results and financial condition. While certain potential impacts of these downgrades are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit rating downgrade are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including market conditions at the time of any downgrade, whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit rating precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit rating, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. Actual outflows could be higher or lower than this hypothetical example, depending upon certain factors including which credit rating agency downgrades our credit rating, any management or restructuring actions that could be taken to reduce cash outflows and the potential liquidity impact from loss of unsecured funding (such as from money market funds) or loss of secured funding capacity. Although, unsecured and secured funding stresses are included in our stress testing scenarios and a portion of our total liquid assets is held against these risks, it is still the case that a credit rating downgrade could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain the current ratings or outlooks. Failure to maintain favorable ratings and outlooks would likely increase the cost of funding to us and adversely affect interest margins, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect our results of operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other private sector Chilean and non-Chilean banks, with Banco del Estado, the principal government-owned sector bank, with department stores and with larger supermarket chains that make consumer loans and sell other financial products to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower to middle-income segments of the Chilean population and the small- and mid- sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks and competition in these segments may increase. We also face competition from non-bank (such as department stores, insurance companies, cajas de compensación and cooperativas) and non-finance competitors (principally department stores and larger supermarket chains) with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans and insurance brokerage. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies with respect to savings products. Increasing competition could require that we increase our rates offered on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans, which could also have a material adverse effect on us, including our profitability. It may also negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things, limiting our ability to increase our customer base and expand our operations and increasing competition for investment opportunities. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. We expect the trends of increased competition and consolidation to continue and to result in the formation of large new financial groups with which we must now compete. There can be no assurance that this increased competition will not adversely affect our growth prospects, and therefore our operations. In addition, if our customer service levels were perceived by the market to be materially below those of our competitor financial institutions, we could lose existing and potential business. If we are not successful in retaining and strengthening customer relationships, we may lose market share, incur losses on some or all of our activities or fail to attract new deposits or retain existing deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties, and we may not be able to manage various risks we face as we expand our range of products and services that could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our operations and our profitability depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties. However, we cannot guarantee that our new products and services will be responsive to client demands or successful once they are offered to our clients, or that they will be successful in the future. In addition, our clients’ needs or desires may change over time, and such changes may render our products and services obsolete, outdated or unattractive and we may not be able to develop new products that meet our clients’ changing needs. If we cannot respond in a timely fashion to the changing needs of our clients, we may lose clients, which could in turn materially and adversely affect us. As we expand the range of our products and services, some of which may be at an early stage of development in the markets of certain regions where we operate, we will be exposed to new and potentially increasingly complex risks and development expenses in those markets, with respect to which our experience and the experience of our partners may not be helpful. Our employees and our risk management systems may not be adequate to handle such risks. In addition, the cost of developing products that are not launched is likely to affect our results of operations. Any or all of these factors, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our strong position in the credit card market is in part due to our credit card co-branding agreement with Chile’s largest airline. This agreement expires in August 2020 and no assurance can be given that it will be renewed, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the credit card business. The financial problems faced by our customers could adversely affect us. Market turmoil and economic recession could materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and/or financial conditions of our borrowers, which could in turn increase our own non-performing loan ratios, impair our loan and other financial assets and result in decreased demand for borrowings in general. In addition, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. Any of the conditions described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may generate lower revenues from fee and commission based businesses. The fees and commissions that we earn from the different banking and other financial services that we provide represent a significant source of our revenues. Market downturns have led, and are likely to continue to lead, to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in our non-interest revenues. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenues we receive from our asset management, private banking and custody businesses and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect us, including our fee and commission income. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market performance by the mutual funds we broker may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from the asset management business we broker and adversely affect our results of operations. Market conditions have, and could result, in material changes to the estimated fair values of our financial assets. Negative fair value adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. In the recent past, financial markets have been subject to significant stress resulting in steep falls in perceived or actual financial asset values, particularly due to volatility in global financial markets and the resulting widening of credit spreads. We have material exposures to securities and other investments that are recorded at fair value and are therefore exposed to potential negative fair value adjustments. Asset valuations in future periods, reflecting then- 15 Table of Contents prevailing market conditions, may result in negative changes in the fair values of our financial assets and these may also translate into increased impairments. In addition, the value ultimately realized by us on disposal may be lower than the current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to record negative fair value adjustments, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or prospects. In addition, to the extent that fair values are determined using financial valuation models, such values may be inaccurate or subject to change, as the data used by such models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, particularly for illiquid assets, and particularly in times of economic instability. In such circumstances, our valuation methodologies require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates in order to establish fair value, and reliable assumptions are difficult to make and are inherently uncertain and valuation models are complex, making them inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Any consequential impairments or write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to effectively control the level of non-performing or poor credit quality loans in the future, or if our loan loss reserves are insufficient to cover future loan losses, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of our businesses. Non-performing or low credit quality loans have in the past and can continue to negatively impact our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively control the level of the impaired loans in our total loan portfolio. In particular, the amount of our reported non-performing loans may increase in the future as a result of growth in our total loan portfolio, including as a result of loan portfolios that we may acquire in the future, or factors beyond our control, such as adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in economic conditions in Chile or global economic conditions, impact of political events, events affecting certain industries or events affecting financial markets and global economies. As of December 31, 2014, our non-performing loans were Ch$644,327 million, and the ratio of our non-performing loans to total loans was 2.81%. As of December 31, 2014, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$684,317 million, and the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to total loans was 2.99%. For additional information on our asset quality, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— F. Selected Statistical Information–Classification of Loan Portfolio Based on the Borrower’s Payment Performance.” Our current allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover an increase in the amount of non-performing loans or any future deterioration in the overall credit quality of our total loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting us, including the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses and other assets require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—C. Operating Results–Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012—Provision for loan losses, net of recoveries.” As a result, there is no precise method for predicting loan and credit losses, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient in the future to cover actual loan and credit losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above-mentioned factors differ from actual developments, if the quality of our total loan portfolio deteriorates, for any reason, including the increase in lending to individuals and SMEs, the volume increase in the consumer loan portfolio and the introduction of new products, or if the future actual losses exceed our estimates of incurred losses, we may be required to increase our provisions and allowance for loan losses, which may adversely affect us. If we are unable to control or reduce the level of our non-performing or poor credit quality loans, this could have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Table of Contents The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable in the current economic climate and this may affect us, as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgage loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. Our exposure to individuals and small and mid-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans, allowances for loan losses and charge-offs. The further expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the consumer, small- and mid-sized companies and real estate segments) can be expected to expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of provisions for loan losses. See “Note 8—Interbank Loans” and “Note 9—Loans and Accounts Receivables from Customers” in our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description and presentation of our loan portfolio as well as “Item 5-Selected Statistical Information—Loan Portfolio.” A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals (51.7% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2014, if interbank loans are included) and, to a lesser extent, small- and mid-sized companies (those with annual revenues of less than U.S.$2.0 million), which comprised approximately 14.7% of the value of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2014. As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small companies and individuals. Small companies and lower- to middle-income individuals are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy than large corporations and higher-income individuals. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, our residential mortgage loan portfolio totaled Ch$6,632,031 million, representing 28.9% of our total loans. See “Note 9—Loans and Accounts Receivables from Customers” in our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for a description and presentation of our residential mortgage loan portfolio. If the economy and real estate market in Chile experience a significant downturn, this could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial conditions of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past-due loans, thereby resulting in higher provisions for loan losses and subsequent charge-offs. This may materially and adversely affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial condition. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate and economic turmoil may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at similar rates to the historical growth rate described above. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. An economic turmoil could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. We are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other market risks, which may materially and adversely affect us. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in our net interest income or in the market value of our assets and liabilities due to volatility of interest rate, exchange rate or equity price. Changes in interest rates affect the following areas, among others, of our business: · net interest income; · the volume of loans originated; 17 Table of Contents · the market value of our securities holdings; and · gains from sales of loans and securities. Variations in short-term interest rates could affect our net interest income, which comprises the majority of our revenue. Interest rate variations could adversely affect us, including our net interest income, reducing our growth rate or even resulting in losses. When interest rates rise, we may be required to pay higher interest on our floating-rate borrowings while interest earned on our predominately fixed-rate assets does not rise as quickly, which could cause profits to grow at a reduced rate or decline in some parts of our portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including increased regulation of the financial sector, the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of loans we originate. Sustained high interest rates have historically discouraged customers from borrowing and have resulted in increased delinquencies in outstanding loans and deterioration in the quality of assets. Increases in interest rates may also reduce the propensity of our customers to prepay or refinance fixed-rate loans. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our financial assets and may reduce gains or require us to record losses on sales of our loans or securities. If interest rates decrease, although this is likely to decrease our funding costs, it is likely to adversely impact the income we receive arising from our investments in securities as well as loans with similar maturities. In addition, we may also experience increased delinquencies in a low interest rate environment when such an environment is accompanied by high unemployment and recessionary conditions. The market value of a security with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when the prevailing interest rates rise, which may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we may incur costs (which, in turn, will impact our results) as we implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The market value of an obligation with a floating interest rate can be adversely affected when interest rates increase, due to a lag in the implementation of repricing terms or an inability to refinance at lower rates. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate risk as a result of mismatches between assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between currencies may negatively affect our earnings and value of our assets and securities. Therefore, while the Bank seeks not to maintain a significant mismatch in foreign currency, from time to time, we may have a mismatch. “See Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks— E. Market Risks—Foreign exchange fluctuations.” The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. The volatility of world equity markets due to the continued economic uncertainty and sovereign debt crisis has had a particularly strong impact on the financial sector. Continued volatility may affect the value of our investments in entities in this sector and, depending on their fair value and future recovery expectations could become a permanent impairment which would be subject to write-offs against our results. To the extent any of these risks materialize, our net interest income or the market value of our assets and liabilities could be materially adversely affected. Failure to successfully implement and continue to improve our risk management policies, procedures and methods, including our credit risk management system, could materially and adversely affect us, and we may be exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. The management of risk is an integral part of our activities. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, such techniques and strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These qualitative tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing 18 Table of Contents those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. As a commercial bank, one of the main types of risks inherent in our business is credit risk. For example, an important feature of our credit risk management system is to employ an internal credit rating system to assess the particular risk profile of a customer. As this process involves detailed analyses of the customer, taking into account both quantitative and qualitative factors, it is subject to human error. In exercising their judgment, our employees may not always be able to assign an accurate credit rating to a customer or credit risk, which may result in our exposure to higher credit risks than indicated by our risk rating system. In addition, we continue to refine our credit policies and guidelines to address potential risks associated with particular industries or types of customers. However, we may not be able to timely detect these risks before they occur, or due to limited tools available to us, our employees may not be able to effectively implement them, which may increase our credit risk. Failure to effectively implement, consistently follow or continuously refine our credit risk management system may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and a higher risk exposure for us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, Dicom en Capital, a Chilean nationwide credit bureau, and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of credit risk associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems will collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we will have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. Liquidity and funding risks are inherent in our business and could have a material adverse effect on us. Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have available sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost. This risk is inherent in any retail and commercial banking business and can be heightened by a number of enterprise-specific factors, including over-reliance on a particular source of funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation. While we implement liquidity management processes to seek to mitigate and control these risks, unforeseen systemic market factors in particular make it difficult to eliminate completely these risks. Adverse and continued constraints in the supply of liquidity, including inter-bank lending, has affected and may materially and adversely affect the cost of funding our business, and extreme liquidity constraints may affect our current operations as well as limit growth possibilities. Disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us. Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can significantly increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven, and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. If wholesale markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits, with a view to attracting more customers, and/or to sell assets, potentially at depressed prices. The persistence or worsening of these adverse market conditions or an increase in base interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access liquidity and cost of funding. 19 Table of Contents We rely, and will continue to rely, primarily on commercial deposits to fund lending activities. The ongoing availability of this type of funding is sensitive to a variety of factors outside our control, such as general economic conditions and the confidence of commercial depositors in the economy, in general, and the financial services industry in particular, and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees, as well as competition between banks for deposits. Any of these factors could significantly increase the amount of commercial deposit withdrawals in a short period of time, thereby reducing our ability to access commercial deposit funding on appropriate terms, or at all, in the future. If these circumstances were to arise, this could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. We anticipate that our customers will continue, in the near future, to make short-term deposits (particularly demand deposits and short-term time deposits), and we intend to maintain our emphasis on the use of banking deposits as a source of funds. As of December 31, 2014, 98.9% of our customer deposits had remaining maturities of one year or less, or were payable on demand. A significant portion of our assets have longer maturities, resulting in a mismatch between the maturities of liabilities and the maturities of assets. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 33.6% and 35.7% of our total liabilities and equity as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Chilean time deposit market is concentrated given the importance in size of various large institutional investors such as pension funds and corporations relative to the total size of the economy. As of December 31, 2014, the Bank’s top 20 time deposits represented 28.3% of total time deposits, or 10.3% of total liabilities and equity, and totaled U.S.$4.8 billion. No assurance can be given that future economic stability in the Chilean market will not negatively affect our ability to continue funding our business or to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring increased funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, we could be materially adversely affected. The short-term nature of this funding source could cause liquidity problems for us in the future if deposits are not made in the volumes we expect or are not renewed. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, we may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements that could limit our operations, and changes to these requirements may further limit and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. As we are the result of the merger between two predecessors with a relevant market share in the Chilean market, we are currently required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 11%. As of December 31, 2014, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 14.00%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business or regulatory changes; · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; · declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio; · changes in accounting rules; · changes in provisioning guidelines that are charged directly against our equity or net income; and · changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. Chilean banks are gradually being required to adopt the guidelines set forth under the Basel III Capital Accord with adjustments incorporated by the SBIF once these changes are approved by the Chilean Congress in 2015 or 20 Table of Contents 2016. Following this approval, Chilean banks will most likely have to fully comply with Basel III requirements by 2018 or 2019. This could result in a different level of minimum capital required to be maintained by us. According to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published by the SBIF for informational purposes only, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk was 12.54% as of December 31, 2014. No assurance can be given that the adoption of the Basel III capital requirements will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. We may also be required to raise additional capital in the future in order to maintain our capital adequacy ratios above the minimum required levels. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited by numerous factors, including: our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; any necessary government regulatory approvals; our credit ratings; general market conditions for capital raising activities by commercial banks and other financial institutions; and domestic and international economic, political and other conditions. If we require additional capital in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such capital on favorable terms, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, the SBIF may increase the minimum capital adequacy requirements applicable to us. Accordingly, although we currently meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements, we may face difficulties in meeting these requirements in the future. If we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements, we may be required to take corrective actions. These measures could materially and adversely affect our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner, the growth of our loan portfolio and other risk-weighted assets may be restricted, and we may face significant challenges in implementing our business strategy. As a result, our prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The SBIF and the Central Bank published new liquidity standards in 2015 and ratios that must be implemented and calculated by all banks. These will eventually replace the current regulatory limits imposed by the SBIF and the Central Bank described above. These new liquidity standards are in line with those established in Basel III. The most important liquidity ratios that will eventually be adopted by Chilean banks are: · Liability concentration per institutional and wholesale counterparty. Banks will have to calculate the percentage of their liabilities coming from institutional and wholesale counterparties, including ratios regarding renovation, renewals, restructurings, maturity and product concentration of these counterparties. · Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), which measures the percentage of liquid Assets over net cash outflows. The new guidelines also define liquid assets and the formulas for calculating net cash outflows. · Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) which will measure a bank’s available stable funding relative to its required stable funding. Both concepts are also defined in the new regulations. Beginning on August 1, 2015, banks must report these ratios to the Central Bank and the SBIF. The evolution of these indicators will be monitored for a 12 month period and adjustments to the required ratios could be made. The final limits and results should begin to be published in the second half of 2016. The initial limits banks must meet to meet in order to comply with these new ratios have not been published yet. For this reason, we cannot yet determine the effect that the implementation of these models will have on our business. Such effect could be material and adverse if it materially increases the liquidity we are required to maintain. We are subject to regulatory risk, or the risk of not being able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines. As a financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation, inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities, which materially affect our businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Changes in regulations may also cause us to face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and provide certain products and services. As some of the banking laws and regulations have been recently adopted, the manner in which those laws and related regulations are applied to the operations of financial institutions is still evolving. Moreover, to the extent these recently adopted regulations are implemented inconsistently in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, it may face higher compliance costs. No assurance can be given generally that laws or regulations will be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Modifications to reserve requirements may affect our business. Deposits are subject to a reserve requirement of 9.0% for demand deposits and 3.6% for time deposits (with terms of less than one year). The Central Bank has statutory authority to require banks to maintain reserves of up to an average of 40.0% for demand deposits and up to 20.0% for time deposits (irrespective, in each case, of the currency in which these deposits are denominated) to implement monetary policy. In addition, to the extent that the aggregate amount of the following types of liabilities exceeds 2.5 times the amount of a bank’s regulatory capital, a bank must maintain a 100% “technical reserve” against them: demand deposits, deposits in checking accounts, obligations payable on sight incurred in the ordinary course of business and, in general, all deposits unconditionally payable immediately. If the Central Bank were to increase reserve requirements, this could lead to lower loan growth and have a negative effect on our business. Our business could be affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if changes limiting our ability to manage our capital position are adopted. Effective management of our capital position is important to our ability to operate our business, to continue to grow organically and to pursue our business strategy. However, in response to the global financial crisis, a number of changes to the regulatory capital framework have been adopted or continue to be considered. As these and other changes are implemented or future changes are considered or adopted that limit our ability to manage our balance sheet and capital resources effectively or to access funding on commercially acceptable terms, we may experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and regulatory capital position. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose a series of restrictions on how Chilean pension fund management companies (Administradora de Fondos de Pensión, or “AFPs”) may allocate their assets. In the particular case of financial issuers’ there are three restrictions, each involving different assets and different limits determined by the amount of assets in each fund and the market and book value of the issuer’s equity. As a consequence, limits vary within funds of AFPs and issuers. As of December 31, 2014, the AFP system had US$3,465 million invested in the Bank via equity, deposits and fixed income. According to the latest information published in November 2014, the AFPs still had the possibility of being able to invest another 7.0% of their assets in deposits and fixed income securities of the Bank and 0.43% in equity of the Bank, or US$12,553 million in total of the AFPs’ assets under management at that time. If the exposure of any AFP to Santander-Chile exceeds the regulatory limits, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, could cause material misstatement of the results of our operations and financial position. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The accounting policies deemed critical to our results and financial position, based upon materiality and significant judgments and estimates, include impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, valuation of financial instruments, impairment of available-for-sale financial assets, deferred tax assets and provision for liabilities. 22 Table of Contents The valuation of financial instruments measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where models are used which include unobservable inputs. Given the uncertainty and subjectivity associated with valuing such instruments it is possible that the results of our operations and financial position could be materially misstated if the estimates and assumptions used prove to be inaccurate. If the judgment, estimates and assumptions we use in preparing our consolidated financial statements are subsequently found to be incorrect, there could be a material effect on our results of operations and a corresponding effect on our funding requirements and capital ratios. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of our tax returns requires the use of estimates and interpretations of complex tax laws and regulations and is subject to review by taxing authorities. We are subject to the income tax laws of Chile and certain foreign countries. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and relevant governmental taxing authorities, which are sometimes subject to prolonged evaluation periods until a final resolution is reached. In establishing a provision for income tax expense and filing returns, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. If the judgment, estimates and assumptions we use in preparing our tax returns are subsequently found to be incorrect, there could be a material effect on our results of operations. Disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by the company in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by any unauthorized override of the controls. Consequently, our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of ‘rogue traders’ or other employees. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We engage in transactions with related parties that others may not consider to be on an arm’s-length basis. We and our affiliates have entered into a number of services agreements pursuant to which we render services, such as administrative, accounting, finance, treasury, legal services and others. 23 Table of Contents Chilean law applicable to public companies and financial groups and institutions, as well as our bylaws, provide for several procedures designed to ensure that the transactions entered into with or among our financial subsidiaries do not deviate from prevailing market conditions for those types of transactions, including the requirement that our board of directors approve such transactions. Furthermore, all significant related party transactions must be approved by the Audit Committee and the Board. These significant transactions are also reported in our annual shareholders meeting. Please see note 34 of our financial statements and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” We are likely to continue to engage in transactions with our affiliates. Future conflicts of interests between us and any of affiliates, or among our affiliates, may arise, which conflicts are not required to be and may not be resolved in our favor. Operational risks, including risks relating to data collection, processing and storage systems are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately, and on our ability to rely on our digital technologies, computer and email services, software and networks, as well as on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The proper functioning of financial control, accounting or other data collection and processing systems is critical to our businesses and to our ability to compete effectively. Losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. Although we work with our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and prevent against cyber-attacks, we routinely exchange personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means, and we may be the target of attempted cyber-attacks. If we cannot maintain an effective data collection, management and processing system, we may be materially and adversely affected. We take protective measures and continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, but our systems, software and networks nevertheless may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future, including relating to cyber-attacks or other such security breaches. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may incur significant costs in its attempt to modify or enhance our protective measures or investigate or remediate any vulnerability. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer requests, to be lost or to be delivered to our clients with delays or errors, which could reduce demand for our services and products and could materially and adversely affect us. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of ‘rogue traders’ or other employees. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. 24 Table of Contents Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must continually make significant investments and improvements in our information technology infrastructure in order to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain the level of capital expenditures necessary to support the improvement or upgrading of our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on third parties for important products and services. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as loan and deposit servicing systems, internet connections and network access. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delays and expense. Damage to our reputation could cause harm to our business prospects. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may result in harm to our prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of, or individuals in, the industry can also affect our reputation. For example, the role played by financial services firms in the financial crisis and the seeming shift toward increasing regulatory supervision and enforcement has caused public perception of us and others in the financial services industry to decline. We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions against us. Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. Our continued success depends in part on the continued service of key members of our management team. The ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified professionals is a key element of our strategy. The successful implementation of our growth strategy depends on the availability of skilled management, both at our head office and at each of our business units. If we or one of our business units or other functions fails to staff its operations appropriately or loses one or more of its key senior executives and fails to replace them in a satisfactory and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations, including control and operational risks, may be adversely affected. In addition, the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. If we fail or are unable to attract and appropriately train, motivate and retain qualified professionals, our business may also be adversely affected. We may not be able to detect or prevent money laundering and other financial crime activities fully or on a timely basis, which could expose us to additional liability and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to comply with applicable anti-money laundering (“AML”), anti-terrorism, sanctions and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to conduct full customer due diligence regarding sanctions and politically-exposed person screening, keep our customer, account and transaction information up to date and have implemented effective financial crime policies and procedures detailing what is required from those responsible. Our requirements also include AML training for our employees, reporting suspicious transactions and activity to appropriate law enforcement following full investigation by our AML team. 25 Table of Contents Financial crime has become the subject of enhanced regulatory scrutiny and supervision by regulators globally. AML sanctions, laws and regulations are increasingly complex and detailed and have become the subject of enhanced regulatory supervision, requiring improved systems, sophisticated monitoring and skilled compliance personnel. We have developed policies and procedures aimed at detecting and preventing the use of our banking network for money laundering and other financial crime related activities. These require implementation and embedding within our business effective controls and monitoring, which in turn require on-going changes to systems and operational activities. Financial crime is continually evolving and subject to increasingly stringent regulatory oversight and focus. This requires proactive and adaptable responses from us so that we are able to effectively deter threats and criminality. Even known threats can never be fully eliminated, and there will be instances where we may be used by other parties to engage in money laundering and other illegal or improper activities. In addition, we rely heavily on our employees to assist us by spotting such activities and reporting them, and our employees have varying degrees of experience in recognizing criminal tactics and understanding the level of sophistication of criminal organizations. Where we outsource any of our customer due diligence, customer screening or anti financial crime operations, we remain responsible and accountable for full compliance and any breaches. If we are unable to apply the necessary scrutiny and oversight, there remains a risk of regulatory breach. If we are unable to fully comply with applicable laws, regulations and expectations, our regulators and relevant law enforcement agencies have the ability and authority to impose significant fines and other penalties on us, including requiring a complete review of our business systems, day-to-day supervision by external consultants and ultimately the revocation of our banking license. The reputational damage to our business and global brand would be severe if we were found to have breached AML or sanctions requirements. Our reputation could also suffer if we are unable to protect our customers or our business from being used by criminals for illegal or improper purposes. In addition, while we review our relevant counterparties’ internal policies and procedures with respect to such matters, we, to a large degree, rely upon our relevant counterparties to maintain and properly apply their own appropriate anti-money laundering procedures. Such measures, procedures and compliance may not be completely effective in preventing third parties from using our (and our relevant counterparties’) services as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) without our (and our relevant counterparties’) knowledge. If we are associated with, or even accused of being associated with, or become a party to, money laundering, then our reputation could suffer and/or we could become subject to fines, sanctions and/or legal enforcement (including being added to any “black lists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Any such risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. We are exposed to risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings. We face risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings, including tax proceedings, that could subject us to monetary judgments, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. The current regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which reflects an increased supervisory focus on enforcement, combined with uncertainty about the evolution of the regulatory regime, may lead to material operational and compliance costs. We are from time to time subject to certain claims and parties to certain legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of our business, including in connection with conflicts of interest, lending activities, relationships with our employees and other commercial or tax matters. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages, or where the cases present novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in the early stages of discovery, we cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of these pending matters will be or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related to each pending matter may be. We believe that we have made adequate reserves related to the costs anticipated to be incurred in connection with these various claims and legal proceedings. See note 20 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the amount of these provisions is substantially less than the total amount of the claims asserted against us and in light of the uncertainties involved in such claims and proceedings, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves currently accrued by us. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending upon, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and our level of income for that period. We are subject to market, operational and other related risks associated with our derivative transactions that could have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes as well as for hedging purposes. We are subject to market, credit and operational risks associated with these transactions, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder, including providing sufficient collateral). Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to maintain adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to adequately monitor, analyze and report derivative transactions continues to depend, to a 26 Table of Contents great extent, on our information technology systems. This factor further increases the risks associated with these transactions and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to counterparty risk in our banking business. We are exposed to counterparty risk in addition to credit risks associated with lending activities. Counterparty risk may arise from, for example, investing in securities of third parties, entering into derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us or executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades from proprietary trading activities that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, hedge funds and other institutional clients. Defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our fixed rate loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower or issuer to pay a debt obligation prior to maturity. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, which reduces the weighted average lives of our earning assets and could have a material adverse effect on us. We would also be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant adverse impact on credit card and collateralized mortgage loans, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these assets, which may result in a mismatch in our funding obligations and reinvestment at lower yields. Prepayment risk is inherent to our commercial activity and an increase in prepayments could have a material adverse effect on us. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms with institutional investors. Large-denominations of funding from time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. As of December 31, 2014 short-term funding from institutional investors totaled US$3.1 billion or 6.7% of total liabilities and equity. The liquidity crisis triggered by the U.S. subprime market impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S., future market instability in the U.S. or in European markets, specifically the Spanish market, may negatively affect our ability to continue funding our business or maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. If we are unable to manage the growth of our operations, this could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We allocate management and planning resources to develop strategic plans for organic growth, and to identify possible acquisitions and disposals and areas for restructuring our businesses. From time to time, we evaluate acquisition and partnership opportunities that we believe offer additional value to our shareholders and are consistent with our business strategy. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or partnership candidates, and our ability to benefit from any such acquisitions and partnerships will depend in part on our successful integration of those businesses. We can give no assurances that our expectations with regards to 27 Table of Contents integration and synergies will materialize. We also cannot provide assurance that we will, in all cases, be able to manage our growth effectively or deliver our strategic growth objectives. Challenges that may result from our strategic growth decisions include our ability to: · manage efficiently the operations and employees of expanding businesses; · maintain or grow our existing customer base; · assess the value, strengths and weaknesses of investment or acquisition candidates; · finance strategic investments or acquisitions; · fully integrate strategic investments, or newly-established entities or acquisitions in line with its strategy; · align our current information technology systems adequately with those of an enlarged group; · apply our risk management policy effectively to an enlarged group; and · manage a growing number of entities without over-committing management or losing key personnel. Any failure to manage growth effectively, including relating to any or all of the above challenges associated with our growth plans, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Risks Relating to Chile Portions of our loan portfolio are subject to risks relating to force majeure events and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results. Chile lies on the Nazca tectonic plate, making it one of the world’s most seismically active regions. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by force majeure events, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where a significant portion of our loan portfolio is composed of real estate loans. Natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods may cause widespread damage which could impair the asset quality of our loan portfolio and could have an adverse impact on the economy of the affected region. Changes in taxes, including the corporate tax rate, in Chile may have an adverse effect on us and our clients. The Chilean Government enacted in 2014 a reform to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we are subject in order to finance greater expenditure in education. The most important changes approved were: 1. The statutory corporate tax rate increased from 20% to 21% in 2014 and 22.5% in 2015. 2. By the end of 2016, national pensions that are Chilean taxpayers must opt between two new tax systems for a period of five years. In one called sistema de renta atribuida (SRA, or attributable income system) the statutory income tax rate will rise to 24% in 2016 and 25% in 2017 and onward with personal taxes paid on an accrued basis. 3. In the other system called sistema integrado parcial (SIP or partially integrated system), the statutory tax rate will rise to 25.5% in 2016 and 27% in 2017 and onward with personal taxes paid on a dividend basis, therefore retaining some benefits for shareholders of companies that reinvest profits. 4. The Taxable Profits Fund (FUT), a mechanism that gives shareholders tax exemptions on reinvested profits, will be eliminated in fiscal 2018. After that, shareholders will have to pay taxes on their total profit under one of the two systems described above. 5. Decree-Law 600, which gives foreign investors certain tax and other guarantees, will be replaced by a new law, yet to be designed. 6. The maximum personal income tax rate will be reduced from 40% to 35%, starting in 2018. 28 Table of Contents 7. Increase in stamp tax from 0.45% to 0.8%. 8. Decree Law 600 to be eliminated by 2016, which could adversely affect foreign investment. 9. Lowering of VAT exemption for construction of houses up to 2,000 UF to UF225 per dwelling. 10. Charge VAT tax on real estate transactions beginning in 2016. VAT tax is 20% in Chile. 11. Extension of certain tax benefits and simplified accounting for companies with annual sales lower than 50,000 UF. 12. Withholding tax on dividends paid to ADR holders remains unchanged at 35% with the statutory corporate tax rate paid by the company still available as credit to the withholding tax. We cannot predict at this time if these reforms will have a material impact on our business or clients or if further tax reforms will be implemented in the future. Banco Santander Chile’s effective corporate tax rate should rise in the future, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Please see “Item 10-Additional information-E. Taxation” for more information regarding the impacts of this tax reform on ADR holders. This may have an adverse effect on the growth rate of mortgage loans and could slow down the rate of economic growth if tax receipts are not spent efficiently or for their intended purposes. Our growth, asset quality and profitability may be adversely affected by macroeconomic and political conditions in Chile. A substantial amount of our loans is to borrowers doing business in Chile. Chile’s economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized, in some cases, by slow or regressive growth, declining investment and hyperinflation. This volatility resulted in fluctuations in the levels of deposits and in the relative economic strength of various segments of the economies to which we lend. The Chilean economy may not continue to grow at similar rates as in the past or future developments may negatively affect Chile’s overall levels of economic activity. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions, such as a changing interest rate and inflationary environment, impact our profitability by causing lending margins to decrease and leading to decreased demand for higher margin products and services. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions in Chile could also result in government defaults on public debt. This could affect us in two ways: directly, through portfolio losses, and indirectly, through instabilities that a default in public debt could cause to the banking system as a whole, particularly since commercial banks’ exposure to government debt is high in Chile. In addition, our revenues are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, social instability, and changes in governmental policies, including expropriation, nationalization, international ownership legislation, interest-rate caps and tax policies. No assurance can be given that our growth, asset quality and profitability will not be affected by volatile macroeconomic and political conditions in Chile. Developments in other countries may affect us, including the prices for our securities. The prices of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, are influenced to varying degrees by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States, Europe (including Spain, where Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, is based), Brazil, Argentina and other nations. Even though the world economy and the financial and capital markets have been recovering from the 2008 crisis throughout 2010 and early 2011, the conditions of the global markets again deteriorated in 2011 and continued through 2012. European countries encountered serious fiscal problems, including high debt levels that impaired growth and increased the risk of sovereign default. Also in 2011, the United States faced fiscal difficulties, which culminated in the downgrade of the U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating by S&P. 29 Table of Contents Ongoing political debates in 2012 with respect to how the United States government would address the so-called “fiscal cliff” contributed to economic uncertainty. In 2012, spillovers from the crisis in Europe weighed negatively on activity and confidence and the global recovery slowed. In 2013, a general recovery was observed in the Eurozone and US economies. Although economic conditions in Europe and the United States may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Chilean issuers. In particular, investor perceptions of the risks associated with our securities may be affected by perception of risk conditions in Spain. If these nations’ economic conditions deteriorate, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years, with possible adverse impact on our borrowers and counterparties. If this were to occur, we would potentially need to increase our allowances for loan losses, thus affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 3.4% of our assets were held abroad. There can be no assurance that the ongoing effects of the global financial crisis will not negatively impact growth, consumption, unemployment, investment and the price of exports in Chile. Crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Chile has considerable economic ties with China. In 2014, 24.4% of Chile’s exports went to China, mainly copper. China’s economy has grown at a strong pace in recent times, but a slowdown in economic activity in China may affect Chile’s GDP and export growth as well as the price of copper, which is Chile’s main export. Chile is also involved in an international litigation with Bolivia regarding maritime borders. We cannot assure you that crises and political uncertainty in other Latin American countries will not have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation may affect our results of operations. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extended periods of deflation could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, Chile experienced deflation of 1.4% as the global economy contracted. In 2014, CPI inflation was 4.4% compared to 1.8% in 2013. Our assets and liabilities are denominated in Chilean pesos, UF and foreign currencies. The UF is revalued in monthly cycles. On each day in the period beginning on the tenth day of any given month through the ninth day of the succeeding month, the nominal peso value of the UF is indexed up (or down in the event of deflation) in order to reflect a proportionate amount of the change in the Chilean Consumer Price Index during the prior calendar month. For more information regarding the UF, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—C. Operating Results—Impact of Inflation.” Although we benefit from inflation in Chile due to the current structure of our assets and liabilities (i.e., a significant portion of our loans are indexed to the inflation rate, but there are no corresponding features in deposits, or other funding sources that would increase the size of our funding base), there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and result of operations in the future will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, including from extended periods of inflation that adversely affect economic growth or periods of deflation. Any change in the methodology of how the CPI index or the UF is calculated could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities. Any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of our securities. The Chilean peso has been subject to large devaluations and appreciations in the past and could be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate exposure. In order to avoid material exchange rate exposure, we enter into forward exchange transactions. The following table shows the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar as reported by the Central Bank at year end for the last five years and the devaluation or appreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar in each of those years. 30 Table of Contents Year Exchange rate (Ch$) at year end Devaluation (Appreciation) (%) 2010 468.37 (7.5 ) 2011 521.46 11.3 2012 478.60 (8.2 ) 2013 523.76 9.4 2014 607.38 16.0 2015 (until May 12, 2015) 606.92 (0.1 ) Source: Central Bank. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate exposure. Regulations that limit such exposures may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate risk will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate exposures, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Banking regulations and other regulatory factors may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the banking sector and financial institutions are continually evolving and changing. These new reforms could result in increased competition in the industry and thus may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. Changes in regulations may also cause us to face increased compliance costs. As some of the banking laws and regulations have been recently adopted, the manner in which those laws and related regulations are applied to the operations of financial institutions is still evolving. Moreover, to the extent these recently adopted regulations are implemented inconsistently in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, it may face higher compliance costs. No assurance can be given generally that laws or regulations will be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, extensive legislation affecting the financial services industry has recently been adopted in regions that directly or indirectly affect our business, including Spain, the United States and the European Union and other jurisdictions, and regulations are in the process of being implemented. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. On November 20, 2013, the Chilean Congress approved new legislation to reduce the maximum rates that can be charged on loans. This new legislation is aimed at loans of less than UF 200 (U.S.$8,097) and with a term of more than 90 days, and thus includes consumer loans in installments, lines of credit and credit card lines. Previously, the maximum interest rate for loans of less than UF 200 and with a term of more than 90 days was calculated as the average rate of all transactions undertaken within the banking industry over the previous month of loans of less than UF 200 and with a term of more than 90 days, multiplied by a factor of 1.5. The average and maximum rates are published daily by the SBIF. On December 13, 2013, the SBIF published the new maximum rates for loans between UF 0 and UF 50 (US$2,024). The new maximum rate was 47.91%, compared to 53.85% as of September 30, 2013. Throughout 2014, further reductions were gradually implemented. The objective is to lower the maximum rate to a level equal to the average interest rate for loans between UF 200 (US$8,097) to UF 5,000 (US$202,416) plus 21%, unless the flow of new loans in the industry decreases by 10%-20%, in which case the reduction will be partially or completely suspended until the next period. As of December 31, 2014, the maximum rate for loans between UF 0 and UF 50 (US$2,024) was 38.63%. We estimate that by year-end 2015 the maximum rate will reach the 37% level the authorities are seeking for loans of this size. On December 13, 2013, the SBIF published the new maximum rates for loans between UF 50 (US$2,024) and UF 200 (US$8,097). The new maximum rate was 45.91%, compared to 53.85% as of September 30, 2013. Throughout 2014, further reductions were gradually implemented. The objective is to lower the maximum rate to a level equal to the average interest rate for loans between UF 200 (US$8,097) to UF 5,000 (US$202,416) plus 14%, unless the flow of new loans in the industry decreases by 10%-20%, in which case the reduction will be partially or completely suspended until the next period. We estimate that it will take an additional 14 months for the maximum rate to reach the 31% level the authorities are seeking for loans of this size. As of December 31, 2014, the maximum rate for loans between UF 50 and UF 200 (US$8,097) was 36.63%. In March 2012, a bill aimed at giving additional enforcement powers to the SERNAC (Chile’s Consumer Protection Agency) regarding financial services became effective and created the SERNAC Financiero, a specific consumer protection agency for the financial industry. The SERNAC Financiero has powers to supervise and regulate Bank products and services. The creation of the SERNAC Financiero has also resulted in additional scrutiny regarding prices and contracts for financial products and services, making it more difficult to raise prices and increasing competition among bank and non-bank competitors. In July 2012, new regulations regarding the selling of mandatory insurance for loans introduced that will increase competition and that could lower our fees from collecting these premiums. This had a negative impact on fees in 2013 in an amount we estimated to be approximately Ch$6 billion. In 2014, we again auctioned our mortgage P&L insurance provider and prices fell once more. This had an impact of Ch$6.8 billion in 2014. We estimate that in 2015, maximum rate regulation and regulation on fees could affect our income by Ch$89 billion. This estimate is only preliminary, as it is difficult to estimate the speed of implementation of the reduction and the effect on loan volumes In line with the future adoption of Basel III regulations in Chile, the SBIF has recently proposed to increase the minimum regulatory capital ratio from 8% to 10%, which would require an amendment to the General Banking Law. Although we currently have a regulatory capital ratio of 14.0% as of December 31, 2014, this change could require us to inject additional capital to our business in the future. According to initial estimates of the impact of market risk on regulatory capital, published for informational purposes only by the SBIF, our ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, including an initial estimate of the adjustments for market risk was 12.54% as of December 31, 2014. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have a material impact on our capitalization ratio. 32 Table of Contents A change in labor laws in Chile or a worsening of labor relations in the Bank could impact our business. As of December 31, 2014 on a consolidated basis, we had 11,478 employees, of which 72.1% were unionized. In March 2014, a new collective bargaining agreement was signed with the main unions, which became effective on January 1, 2014, and which will expire on December 31, 2018. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally had good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future, a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Congress is currently discussing a new labor law which should be passed in 2015. The main points included in this law are: · Expands the scope of collective bargaining. Currently some groups of workers are excluded from the collective bargaining process. · Gives union has sole collective bargaining rights. The ability of non-union groups to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement is eliminated. · Expands workers ability to switch unions and gives workers the same rights under a collective bargaining agreement if they affiliate themselves post-negotiations. · Expand the right to greater information of unions including the wages of each worker included in a collective bargaining agreement. · Simplifies the standard collective bargaining process. · Collective bargaining agreements must last maximum three years instead of four. · Eliminate the ability of the employer to replace workers on strike and establishes minimum service guidelines that workers must respect. · Establishes the current collective bargaining agreement as the bargaining floor for future collective bargaining agreements. · Amplifies the matters that can be negotiated in collective bargaining. · Greater hours for training of union representatives. · Strengthen the participation of women in unions. The Bank currently has a high unionization level and good labor relations. At this time, we are unable to estimate the impact these new regulations will have on labor relations and costs. The current project may also suffer additional modification will being discussed in Congress. These and any additional legislative or regulatory actions in Chile, Spain, the European Union, the United States or other countries, and any required changes to our business operations resulting from such legislation and regulations, could result in reduced capital availability, significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to continue organic growth (including increased lending), pursue business opportunities in which we might otherwise consider engaging and provide certain products and services, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that any such new legislation or regulations would not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future. Our corporate disclosure may differ from disclosure regularly published by issuers of securities in other countries, including the United States. Issuers of securities in Chile are required to make public disclosures that are different from, and that may be reported under presentations that are not consistent with, disclosures required in the United States and other countries. In particular, as a Chilean regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the SBIF on a 33 Table of Contents monthly basis unaudited consolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean Bank GAAP and the rules of the SBIF. This disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the same disclosure requirements in the United States as a domestic U.S. registrant under the Exchange Act, including the requirements to prepare and issue quarterly reports, or the proxy rules applicable to domestic U.S. registrants under Section 14 of the Exchange Act or the insider reporting and short-swing profit rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company and may be reported in a manner that you are not familiar with. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations, which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors, except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information relating to equity investments and conduct such operations within Chile’s Formal Exchange Market. The ADSs are subject to a contract, dated May 17, 1994, among the Depositary, us and the Central Bank (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that remains in full force and effect. The ADSs continue to be governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Contract subject to the regulations in existence prior to April 2001. The Foreign Investment Contract grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADSs access to the Formal Exchange Market, which permits the Depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of the ADSs. The Foreign Investment Contract also permits ADS holders to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility, or that have been received free of payment as a consequence of spin offs, mergers, capital increases, wind ups, share dividends or preemptive rights transfers, enabling them to acquire the foreign currency necessary to repatriate earnings from such investments. Pursuant to Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Contract cannot be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank, and there are judicial precedents (although not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that contracts of this type may not be abrogated by future legislative changes or resolutions of the Advisory Council of the Central Bank. Holders of shares of our common stock, except for shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS facility or received in the manner described above, are not entitled to the benefits of the Foreign Investment Contract, may not have access to the Formal Exchange Market, and may have restrictions on their ability to repatriate investments in shares of our common stock and earnings therefrom. Holders of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the Depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the Depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. Investors may find it difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are a Chilean corporation. None of our directors are residents of the United States and most of our executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. Although we have appointed an agent for service of process in any action against us in the United States with respect to our ADSs, none of our directors, officers or controlling persons has consented to service of process in the United States or to the jurisdiction of any United States court. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons. It may also be difficult for ADS holders to enforce in the United States or in Chilean courts money judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil 34 Table of Contents liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. If a U.S. court grants a final money judgment in an action based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, enforceability of this money judgment in Chile will be subject to the obtaining of the relevant “exequatur” (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) according to Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder and our ADSs Our controlling shareholder has a great deal of influence over our business and its interests could conflict with yours. Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, controls Santander-Chile through its holdings in Teatinos Siglo XXI Inversiones S.A. and Santander Chile Holding S.A., which are controlled subsidiaries. Santander Spain has control over 67.18% of our shares and actual participation, excluding non-controlling shareholders that participate in Santander Chile Holding, S.A. of 67.01%. Due to its share ownership, our controlling shareholder has the ability to control us and our subsidiaries, including the ability to: · elect the majority of the directors and exercise control over our company and subsidiaries; · cause the appointment of our principal officers; · declare the payment of any dividends; · agree to sell or otherwise transfer its controlling stake in us; and · determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including amendments of our bylaws, transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and disposals of assets and issuance of additional equity securities, if any. In December 2012, primarily in response to the requirements of the European Banking Authority, the Bank of Spain and regulators in various jurisdictions, Santander Spain adopted a corporate governance framework (Marco de Gobierno Interno del Grupo Santander). The purpose of the framework is to organize and standardize the corporate governance practices of Santander Spain and its most significant subsidiaries, including us. (Our Board of Directors approved the adoption of this corporate governance framework in July 2013,) subject to certain overarching principles, such as the precedence of applicable laws and regulations over the framework to the extent they are in conflict. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” Our adoption of this framework may increase Santander Spain’s control over us. We operate as a stand-alone subsidiary within the Santander Group. Our controlling shareholder has no liability for our banking operations, except for the amount of its holdings of our capital stock. The interests of Santander Spain may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, and the concentration of control in Santander Spain may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, and the concentration of control in Santander Spain will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, we may take actions that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance 35 Table of Contents committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. Although we have similar practices, they do not entirely conform to the NYSE requirements for U.S. issuers; therefore we currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using them. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. Our ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE. Our common stock is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Chile Electronic Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Exchange, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Stock Exchanges, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. At December 31, 2014, we had 188,446,126,794 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. According to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on one or more Chilean Stock Exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. In addition, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it deems necessary. Although our common stock is traded on the Chilean Stock Exchanges, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to exist. Approximately 33.0% of our outstanding common stock is held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Santander Spain and its affiliates), including our shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Companies Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible in the United States unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), as amended, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to make a registration statement available with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights in the United States. If a registration statement is not filed or an applicable exemption is not available under U.S. securities law, the Depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. As a holder of ADSs you will have different shareholders’ rights than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Chile. Under Chilean corporate law, you may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of our common shares than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Chile. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. 36 Table of Contents Although Chilean corporate law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the form of these regulations and the manner of their enforcement may differ from that in the U.S. securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions. In addition, in Chile, self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be regulated differently, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the shares underlying ADSs. Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs will not be our direct shareholders and will be unable to enforce directly the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the laws of Chile. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common stock represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. Holders of our common stock will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the Depositary following our notice to the Depositary requesting the Depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the Depositary on a timely basis on how they wish to vote. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our common stock. If the Depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the Depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the Depositary to vote the common stock underlying their ADSs. In addition, the Depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the common stocks underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. ADS holders may be subject to additional risks related to holding ADSs rather than shares. Because ADS holders do not hold their shares directly, they are subject to the following additional risks, among others: · as an ADS holder, we will not treat you as one of our direct shareholders and you may not be able to exercise shareholder rights; · we and the depositary may amend or terminate the deposit agreement without the ADS holders’ consent in a manner that could prejudice ADS holders or that could affect the ability of ADS holders to transfer ADSs; and · the depositary may take or be required to take actions under the Deposit Agreement that may have adverse consequences for some ADS holders in their particular circumstances. 