Risk Factors – General Risks Related to Our Business and Market.)At December 31, 2015, we had outstanding buy-back obligations totaling approximately $1.2 million that extend through 2024.Non-GAAP Financial DataThe following non-GAAP financial data is presented to enable investors to have additional information on our business performance as well as a further basis for periodical comparisons and trends relating to our financial results. We believe such data provides useful information to investors by facilitating more meaningful comparisons of our financial results over time. Such non-GAAP information is used by our management to make strategic decisions, forecast future results and evaluate our current performance. However, investors are cautioned that, unlike financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP measures may not be comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies.47The non-GAAP financial data below includes reconciliation adjustments regarding non-GAAP gross profit, operating income, net income and diluted EPS. In arriving at non-GAAP presentations, companies generally factor out items such as those that have a non-recurring impact on the income statements, various non-cash items, significant effects of retroactive tax legislation and changes in accounting guidance and other items which, in management’s judgment, are items that are considered to be outside the review of core operating results. In our non-GAAP presentation, we made certain adjustments as indicated in the table below.These non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations, as determined in accordance with GAAP, and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as replacements for or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.Reconciliation of GAAP (Audited) toNon-GAAP (Unaudited) Supplemental Financial Data(U.S. dollars in millions, except for per share amounts) Years Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 GAAP gross profit897.1 825.1 824.8Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets29.9 21.6 22.2Impairment of long-lived assets— — 0.9Non-GAAP gross profit927.0 846.7 847.9Percent of revenues29.8% 28.6% 29.0% GAAP operating income268.6 246.9 239.4Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets48.1 43.1 45.9Gain from change in holdings— (6.0) —Legal settlement— — (7.6)Impairment of long-lived assets(1)— — 0.9Non-GAAP operating income316.7 284.0 278.6Percent of revenues10.2% 9.6% 9.5% GAAP net income attributable to Elbit Systems’ shareholders202.5 171.0 183.4Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets48.1 43.1 45.9Impairment of long-lived assets(1)— — 0.9Legal settlement— — (7.6)Gain from changes in holdings(2)— (6.0) (0.9)Adjustment of loss (gain) from discontinued operations, net— — (0.8)Related tax benefits(8.2) (6.9) (10.1)Non-GAAP net income attributable to Elbit Systems’ shareholders242.4 201.2 210.8Percent of revenues7.8% 6.8% 7.2% GAAP diluted net EPS4.74 4.01 4.34Adjustments, net0.93 0.70 0.65Non-GAAP diluted net EPS5.67 4.71 4.99(1)Impairment of investments in 2013 was due to impairment in intangible assets.(2)Adjustment of gain from changes in holdings includes a sale of activities of $0.9 million in 2013 and gain of $6.0 million in 2014 relating to an increase in shareholdings in an Israeli subsidiary. 48Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees.Directors and Executive OfficersBoard of Directors (Board)Our directors as of March 15, 2016 are as follows:Name Age DirectorSince Michael Federmann (Chair) 72 2000 Rina Baum 70 2001 Yoram Ben-Zeev 71 2014 David Federmann (Vice Chair) 41 2007 Yehoshua Gleitman (External Director) 66 2010 Yigal Ne'eman 74 2004 Dov Ninveh 68 2000* Dalia Rabin (External Director) 65 2010 Professor Yuli Tamir 62 2015 __________________* was not a member of the Board from April - October 2013 The term of office of each director, other than the External Directors, expires at the annual general shareholders meeting to be held during 2016. The term of office for Yehoshua Gleitman as an External Director expires in March 2019, and the term of office for Dalia Rabin as an External Director expires in November 2016. Michael Federmann. Michael Federmann has served as chair of the Board since 2000. He has held managerial positions in the Federmann Group since 1969, and since 2002 he has served as chair and CEO of Federmann Enterprises Ltd. (FEL). Currently, he also serves as chair of the board of directors of Dan Hotels Ltd. (Dan Hotels). Mr. Federmann is chair of the board of governors of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (the Hebrew University). He serves as the president of the Israel - Germany Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and political science from the Hebrew University. Rina Baum. Rina Baum is vice president for investments of FEL and since 1986 has served as a director and as general manager of Unico Investment Company Ltd. She serves as a director of Dan Hotels and Etanit Building Products Ltd., as well as in other managerial positions within the Federmann Group. She also serves as a director of Harel-PIA Mutual Funds Management Company Ltd. Mrs. Baum holds an L.L.B. degree in law from the Hebrew University.Yoram Ben-Zeev. Yoram Ben-Zeev serves on the board of several non-profit organizations in Israel and is a member of the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ (MFA) Nomination Committee. He served as Israel's ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany from 2007 until 2012. Prior to that, he served for 26 years in various senior positions in the MFA, including as deputy general director, head of the North America Division and senior member of the directorate. Among other positions held during his service in the MFA, Mr. Ben-Zeev served as Israel's consul general to the West Coast in the United States, political advisor to the president of the State of Israel, special coordinator to the Middle East peace process, advisor to prime minister Ehud Barak for the Camp David Peace Conference and chair of the MFA’s Steering Committee - Foreign Service Strategic and Functional Planning and of the Israel-Canada Annual Strategic Forum. Mr. Ben-Zeev has been the recipient of special awards for his diplomatic service from both the U.S. House of Representatives and the president of the Federal Republic of Germany. Mr. Ben-Zeev holds a bachelor's degree in Middle Eastern studies, political science and international relations from the Hebrew University. Mr. Ben Zeev serves as the chair of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board.49David Federmann. David Federmann has served as vice chair of the Board since November 2015. He has served in various management capacities in FEL since 2000. He currently serves as chair of the board of Freiberger Compound Materials GmbH (Freiberger) in Freiberg, Germany and as a member of the boards of directors of Dan Hotels and BGN Technologies (the technology transfer company of Ben-Gurion University). David Federmann is the son of Michael Federmann, chair of the Board. Mr. Federmann holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and philosophy from New York University.Dr. Yehoshua Gleitman (External Director). Dr. Yehoshua (Shuki) Gleitman has served since 2001 as the managing partner of Platinum VC, a venture capital firm. He currently serves as the chair of the board of directors of Capital Point Ltd. and and of GIBF - Guangzhou Israel Bio Tech Fund and is a director of Teuza - A Fairchild Technology Venture Ltd. From 2000 until 2005, he was the chief executive officer and a director of SFKT Ltd. From 1997 until 1999, Dr. Gleitman was the chief executive officer of Ampal-American Israel Corporation. Prior to that he served in various senior management positions in the Israeli government and in Israeli industry, including as director general and chief scientist of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade, chair of the U.S.-Israel Industrial R&D Foundation, joint chair of the U.S.-Israel Science and Technology Commission, managing director of AIMS Ltd., vice president and general manager of Elop Electro-Optic Industries Ltd.’s (Elop) marine and aerial operations and head of the Laser Branch of the Israel Ministry of Defense. Dr. Gleitman serves as the honorary consul general of Singapore to Israel. Dr. Gleitman holds bachelors of science, master of science and PhD degrees in physical chemistry from the Hebrew University. Dr. Gleitman serves as the chair of the Audit Committee and the Financial Statements Review Committee of the Board and as a member of the Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. He is considered by the Board to have accounting and financial expertise under the Companies Law.Yigal Ne’eman. Yigal Ne’eman has served as a member of the board of governors of the Academic College of Israel in Ramat Gan since 2010 and until the end of 2015 he also served as its general manager. From 1994 to 2010, he served as the chair and president of the Israel College. From 1989 to 1993, he served as chair and as a shareholder of several industrial, commercial and service companies. Mr. Ne’eman served as the president and CEO of Tadiran Ltd. (Tadiran) from 1981 to 1989. During that period he also served as chair of the board of directors of Elisra Electronic Systems Ltd. and of Elop. Prior to that he held a number of management positions in the control and finance departments of Tadiran. Mr. Ne’eman completed his accounting studies at the Hebrew University and is a certified public accountant. Mr. Ne’eman serves as a member of the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board. He is considered by the Board to have financial and accounting expertise under the Companies Law.Dov Ninveh. Dov Ninveh has served as chief financial officer and a manager in FEL since 1994 and as general manager of Heris Aktiengesellschaft since 2012. He serves as a director of Dan Hotels, Etanit Ltd. and Jata Corp., and as a member of the board of Freiberger. Mr. Ninveh served as a director of Elop from 1996 until 2000. From 1989 to 1994, he served as deputy general manager of Etanit Building Products Ltd. Mr. Ninveh holds a bachelor of science degree in economics and management from the Israel Institute of Technology (the Technion).Dalia Rabin (External Director). Dalia Rabin currently serves as the chair of the Yitzhak Rabin Center, a national institute dedicated to ensuring that the legacy of former Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Yitzhak Rabin continues to impact Israeli society through experiential educational programming, a national archive and a museum. Before that, Mrs. Rabin was a member of the Israeli Government from 1999 until 2002. She currently serves as the president of the Center for Arbitration and Dispute Resolution and as a member of the board of directors of ACUM - Authors Composers and Music Publishers Society and Peilim Investment Portfolio Management Company Ltd. Mrs. Rabin was elected to the Knesset on the Center Party Ticket in 1999 and acted as chair of the Ethics Committee. She also served on the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee; the Committee for the Advancement of the Status of Women; the State Control Committee; and the Committee for the Advancement of the Status of the Child. In 2001, Mrs. Rabin was appointed Deputy Minister of Defense. She resigned in 2002 to head the Rabin Center. Prior to her election to the Knesset, Mrs. Rabin served as the legal advisor of the professional associations of the General Federation of Labor (the Histadrut). She also served for fourteen years in the Tel-Aviv District Attorney's Office in the Civil Division, specializing in labor law. Mrs. Dalia Rabin holds an L.L.B degree from Tel-Aviv University. Mrs. Rabin serves as the chair of the Compensation Committee of the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee, the Financial Statements Review Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.50Professor Yuli Tamir. Prof. Yuli Tamir has served since 2010 as the President of Shenkar College, a public college in Ramat-Gan, Israel. Before that, from 2006 until 2009, she served as Israel’s Minister of Education. Prof. Tamir also served as the Minister of Immigration from 1999 until 2001. She was a deputy speaker of the Knesset and a member of the Finance Committee, the Education Committee and the Security and Foreign Affairs Committee. Prof. Tamir is a founding member of the Israeli peace movement "Peace Now". She served as the chair of the Association of Civil Rights in Israel and was a member of the political committee of the Women’s Lobby. She was a professor at Tel-Aviv University and a scholar-in-residence at Princeton University, Harvard University, the University of Pennsylvania, the European University in Florence, the Central European University in Budapest and the Blavatnik School of Government in Oxford. Prof. Tamir is the recipient of numerous academic awards. Prof. Tamir holds a bachelor of science degree in biology and a masters degree in political science from the Hebrew University and a PhD in political philosophy from Oxford University. Prof. Tamir serves as a member of the Audit Committee and the Financial Statements Review Committee of the Board. Executive OfficersOur executive officers (the President and CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents reporting to the President and CEO) as of March 15, 2016 are as follows:Name Age PositionBezhalel Machlis 53 President and Chief Executive OfficerElad Aharonson 42 Executive Vice President and General Manager – ISTAR DivisionJonathan Ariel 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerDavid Block Temin 60 Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Senior CounselAdi Dar 44 Executive Vice President and General Manager – CYBERBITItzhak Dvir 68 Executive Vice President - Special MattersJacob Gadot 68 Executive Vice President – Corporate ProjectsJoseph Gaspar 67 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerZeev Gofer 63 Executive Vice President – Strategic and Business Development - North AmericaShelly Gordon 55 Executive Vice President – Human ResourcesRan Kril 45 Executive Vice President - International Marketing and Business DevelopmentEdgar Maimon 60 Executive Vice President and General Manager – EW and SIGINT Elisra DivisionAvi Mizrachi 58 Executive Vice President - Business Development - Southeast AsiaIlan Pacholder 61 Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions and FinancingYuval Ramon 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerGideon Sheffer 67 Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning and Business Development – IsraelYoram Shmuely 55 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Aerospace DivisionUdi Vered 58 Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I DivisionYehoshua Yehuda 48 Executive Vice President - Chief Technology Officer 51Bezhalel Machlis. Bezhalel Machlis has served as the Company’s President and CEO since 2013. From 2008 until 2012, he served as executive vice president and general manager – land and C4I division, after serving as corporate vice president and general manager – land systems and C4I since 2004. In 2003, he served as corporate vice president and general manager – ground, C4I and battlefield systems. From 2000 until 2002, he served as vice president – battlefield and information systems. Mr. Machlis joined Elbit Ltd. in 1991 and held various management positions in the battlefield and information systems area. Prior to that, he served as an artillery officer in the IDF, where he holds the rank of colonel (reserves). Mr. Machlis holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering and a bachelor of arts degree in computer science from the Technion and an MBA from Tel-Aviv University. He is a graduate of Harvard University Business School's Advanced Management Program.Elad Aharonson. Elad Aharonson has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager - ISTAR Division since April 2015. From 2011 until his current appointment, he served as executive vice president and general manager - UAS Division, after serving as vice president - UAV systems since 2009. He joined Elbit Systems in 2004 and held various senior program management positions relating to UAS. Prior to that, Mr. Aharonson served as an officer in the IDF holding command positions in the Artillery Branch and in the Ground Forces’ UAV unit. Mr. Aharonson holds an L.L.B. degree in law and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the Hebrew University.Jonathan Ariel. Jonathan Ariel has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since 2012, after serving as senior vice president and general counsel since 2008. He joined Elbit Systems in 1996 and has held several positions within the legal department, including vice president and general counsel of Elop. Prior to joining Elbit Systems, Mr. Ariel served as a legal advisor both in-house and in private law firms in Israel and the U.S. Mr. Ariel holds an L.L.B degree in law from Tel-Aviv University and is admitted to the Israeli Bar.David Block Temin. David Block Temin has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Senior Counsel since 2012, after serving as executive vice president, chief legal officer and chief compliance officer since 2008. Prior to that he served as corporate vice president and general counsel since 2000 and as general counsel since 1996. From 1987 to 1996, he was a legal advisor to Elbit Ltd. Prior to that, Mr. Block Temin was an attorney with law firms in New York City. Mr. Block Temin received a juris doctor degree as well as a master of arts degree in international relations from Stanford University and holds a bachelor of arts degree in political science from the University of Maryland. He is admitted to the Israeli bar.Adi Dar. Adi Dar was appointed as Executive Vice President and General Manager - CYBERBIT in April 2015. From 2009 until his current appointment, he served as executive vice president and general manager - Electro-optics - Elop Division. From 2006 until 2009, he served as Elop’s vice president for business development. Prior to that he served in a number of management positions in Elbit Systems, which he joined in 2002. From 1999 until 2002, he was vice president for business development and marketing at Elron Telesoft Ltd. Mr. Dar holds a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from the Technion and an MBA from Tel-Aviv University.Itzhak Dvir. Itzhak Dvir was appointed as an Executive Vice President - Special Matters in October 2015, after serving as executive vice president since 2008 and as chief operating officer since 2004. During 2010, he also served as general manager (acting) of the UAS Division. He was appointed as a corporate vice president in 2000. Mr. Dvir served as general manager - UAV, tactical and security systems from 2003 until 2004. From 2000 through 2002, he was general manager - C4I and battlefield systems. From 1996 until 2000, he was vice president and division manager - UAV and C3 division. Mr. Dvir joined Elbit Ltd. in 1989 and held various management positions, including vice president - UAV division, vice president - advance battlefield systems division and marketing director - battlefield systems division. Prior to that he served as a career officer in the IAF, retiring with the rank of colonel. Mr. Dvir holds a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Technion and a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright Patterson Air Force Base.52Jacob Gadot. Jacob Gadot was appointed as Executive Vice President - Corporate Projects in September 2015, after serving as executive vice president - international marketing and business development since 2009. From 2008 until 2009, he was executive vice president - mergers and acquisitions, after serving as corporate vice president - mergers and acquisitions since 2000. He also served as chief technology officer from 2001 until 2005. Mr. Gadot held the position of vice president - mergers and acquisitions from 1998 to 2000 and vice president - business development from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Gadot joined Elbit Ltd. in 1983 and held various management positions, including vice president - international marketing and head of the airborne division. Prior to that, he worked for Motorola Israel, after serving for ten years as an officer in the IAF. Mr. Gadot holds a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from the Technion.Joseph Gaspar. Joseph Gaspar was appointed as an Executive Vice President in 2008 and has served as Chief Financial Officer since 2001. He was appointed as a corporate vice president in 2000 and served as corporate vice president – strategy, technology and subsidiaries from 2000 until 2001. From 1996 until 2000, he held the position of corporate vice president, marketing and business development of Elop. Mr. Gaspar joined Elop in 1975 and held several management positions, including vice president and general manager of Elop’s optronics product division and co-manager of an Elop subsidiary in the United States. Mr. Gaspar holds a bachelor of science degree from the Technion in electronic engineering with advanced studies in digital signal processing and communication.Zeev Gofer. Zeev Gofer has served as Executive Vice President – Strategic and Business Development – North America since 2009. From 2008 until his current appointment he was executive vice president – business development and marketing, after serving as corporate vice president – business development and marketing since 2003. He previously served as corporate vice president and as co-general manager – aircraft and helicopter upgrades and systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1999 until 2000, he was vice president – aircraft upgrades and airborne systems division, having served as division manager since 1996. He joined Elbit Ltd. in 1982 and held various management positions, including director of the aircraft upgrade division, director of a major aircraft upgrade program, director of avionics system engineering and technical manager of the Lavi aircraft avionics program. Mr. Gofer holds bachelor's and master of science degrees in electronic engineering from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York.Shelly Gordon. Shelly Gordon was appointed as Executive Vice President - Human Resources in October 2015, after joining Elbit Systems in July 2015. From 2012 until joining Elbit Systems, she headed executive education at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzilya. From 2005 until 2012, Dr. Gordon served as vice president - organizational development and talent management at Amdocs Limited and served as vice president - human resources at Elite Confectionary Ltd. from 2000 until 2005. Prior to that, she worked as an independent consultant with management teams and senior managers, leading major transformations in varied organizations and industries. Dr. Gordon received a bachelor’s degree in education and art from the Hebrew University, a bachelor’s degree in psychology from Tel-Aviv University and a doctorate degree in management studies from the University of Hertfordshire in the U.K.Ran Kril. Ran Kril was appointed as Executive Vice President - International Marketing and Business Development in September 2015. From 2013 until his current appointment, he served as vice president for marketing and sales in the aerospace division, after serving as the aerospace division’s vice president for sales and contracts since 2007. He joined Elbit Systems in 1997 and held various senior positions in the marketing, sales and finance departments of the aerospace division. Mr. Kril holds a bachelor of science degree in economics and management from the Technion and a master of science of management degree from the Polytechnic University of New York.Edgar Maimon. Edgar Maimon has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager – EW and SIGINT Elisra Division since 2013. From 2005 until his current appointment Mr. Maimon served as vice president of marketing and business development at Elbit Systems EW and SIGINT – Elisra Ltd. (Elisra). He joined Elisra in 2004. Prior to that Mr. Maimon served for 26 years in the IAF, where he retired with the rank of colonel. He served as the head of the IAF’s C4I systems engineering department and held several additional senior positions in the IAF. Mr. Maimon holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from Ben Gurion University.Avi Mizrachi. Avi Mizrachi was appointed Executive Vice President - Business Development - Southeast Asia in 2014. He joined Elbit Systems in 2013 as a senior vice president in the corporate marketing department. Prior to that, Mr. Mizrachi completed 33 years of service in the IDF, retiring with the rank of major general. From 2009 to 2012, he served as the commander of the IDF’s Central Command. Prior to that he held a number of senior command positions including head of the Technology and Logistics Branch and commander of the IDF’s Ground Forces. Mr. Mizrachi holds a bachelor of arts degree in computer science and business administration from Pace University in New York and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program.53Ilan Pacholder. Ilan Pacholder has served as Executive Vice President – Mergers and Acquisitions since 2009, in addition to his position as Executive Vice President – Financing to which he was appointed in 2008. From 2008 until 2015, he also served as executive vice president - offset. During 2007, he served as vice president and chief financial officer of Tadiran Communications Ltd. Mr. Pacholder served as corporate secretary and vice president – finance and capital markets of Elbit Systems from 2003 until 2006. From 2001 until 2003, he served as vice president – finance. Mr. Pacholder joined Elbit Ltd. in 1994 and held various senior positions in the finance department. Prior to joining Elbit Ltd. he served as the chief financial officer for Sanyo Industries in New York. Before that Mr. Pacholder worked for Bank Leumi in New York and held the position of vice president in the international and domestic lending departments. Mr. Pacholder holds a bachelor of arts degree in accounting and economics from Queens College in New York and an MBA in finance and investments from Adelphi University. Yuval Ramon. Yuval Ramon was appointed as an Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in October 2015. From 2014 until his current appointment, he served as vice president - corporate operations. Prior to that, from 1998 - 2013, he served in a number of management positions in Elbit Systems of America, including as senior vice president of operations, site lead at the Merrimack operations and director of sales and contracts for the Fort Worth operations. He joined Elbit Systems in 1994 as a sales and contract manager. Mr. Ramon holds a bachelor of science degree in industrial engineering and economics from the Technion.Gideon Sheffer. Gideon Sheffer has served as Executive Vice President – Strategic Planning and Business Development – Israel since 2009. From 2008 until his current position he served as executive vice president – strategic planning, after serving as corporate vice president – strategic planning since 2001. Prior to that he served as acting head of Israel’s National Security Council and as national security advisor to former prime minister Ehud Barak. In 1998, he completed 32 years of service in the IDF, retiring with the rank of major general. From 1995 to 1998, he served on the general staff as head of the IDF’s human resources branch. Before that, he served as deputy commander of the IAF. Mr. Sheffer held a number of command positions in the IAF after serving as a fighter aircraft and helicopter pilot. Mr. Sheffer holds a bachelor’s degree in Israel studies from Bar Ilan University and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program.Yoram Shmuely. Yoram Shmuely has served as Executive Vice President and General Manager – Aerospace Division since 2013, after serving as executive vice president and co-general manager of the aerospace division since 2008. Mr. Shmuely served as corporate vice president and co-general manager – airborne and helmet systems since 2003. He served as corporate vice president and general manager – helmet mounted systems from 2000 until 2003. From 1998 until 2000, he was vice president – helmet mounted systems division. From 1996 until 1998, he served as president of a U.S. subsidiary of Elbit Systems. Mr. Shmuely joined Elbit Ltd. in 1990 and served as director of Elbit Ltd.’s helmet mounted display business. He served as a fighter aircraft pilot in the IAF. Mr. Shmuely holds a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering from the Technion.Udi Vered. Yehuda (Udi) Vered has served Executive Vice President and General Manager – Land and C4I Division since 2013. From 2009 until his current appointment Mr. Vered served as executive vice president – service solutions as well as vice president – marketing for the land and C4I division. Prior to that, since 2004 he served as chief financial officer and vice president for contracts and sales of the land and C4I division. Mr. Vered joined Elbit Systems in 2003 as vice president for contracts and sales and chief financial officer – ground, C4I and battlefield systems. Before that, he served as an aircrew officer in the IAF, where he holds the rank of colonel (reserves). Mr. Vered holds a bachelor of arts degree in management and economics from Tel-Aviv University, an MBA from Ben Gurion University and is a graduate of the Harvard University Business School’s Advanced Management Program.Yehoshua (Shuki) Yehuda. Shuki Yehuda was appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in January 2016. From 2008 until his current appointment, he served as Elisra’s vice president and chief technology officer as well as general manager - radar solutions business unit. Prior to that he served in a number of management positions in Elisra, which he joined in 2000. Prior to joining Elisra, Mr. Yehuda served as an officer in the IDF, holding command positions in the Intelligence Corps. Mr. Yehuda holds a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Tel-Aviv University and a master of science degree in neural computation from the Hebrew University. He is a graduate of Harvard University Business School's Advanced Management Program.54President and CEO of Elbit Systems of AmericaElbit Systems of America’s President and CEO reports to the board of directors of Elbit Systems of America in accordance with the provisions of the Special Security Agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense. (See 