ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RISKS We may never receive marketing approval for any of our products, including Vasovist and EP-2104R. We are not able to market any of our products in the U.S., Europe or in any other jurisdiction without marketing approval from the FDA, the European Commission, or any equivalent foreign regulatory agency. The regulatory process to obtain marketing approval for a new drug or biologic takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product candidate involved. For example, Vasovist has not been approved in the U.S. In December 2003, we submitted a NDA for Vasovist to the FDA, and in June 2004, our development partner Schering AG submitted a MAA to the EMEA. In January 2005, we received an approvable letter from the FDA for Vasovist in which the FDA requested additional clinical studies prior to approval. In May 2005, we submitted a response to the FDA approvable letter, which was accepted by the FDA as a complete response in June 2005. In October 2005, the EMEA granted approval of Vasovist for all 25 member states of the E.U. In November 2005, the FDA provided us with a second approvable letter. The second approvable letter indicated that at least one additional clinical trial and a re-read of images obtained in certain previously completed Phase III trials will be necessary before the FDA could approve Vasovist. We believe that these studies would require a substantial period of time to complete. No safety or manufacturing issues were raised in the second approvable letter. We had a meeting with the FDA in January 2006 to discuss the path forward for Vasovist in the U.S. and we are currently considering all of our options, including formally appealing the FDA’s decision to require an additional clinical trial and/or conducting the additional clinical trial requested by the FDA. The approval, timeliness of approval or labeling of Vasovist are subject to significant uncertainties related to a number of factors, including the process of reaching agreement with the FDA on the clinical data and on any clinical study protocol required for regulatory approval of Vasovist, the timing and process of conducting any clinical or preclinical studies required, obtaining the desired outcomes of any required clinical trials and the FDA’s review process and conclusions regarding any additional Vasovist regulatory submissions. We cannot assume that we will be able to reach agreement with the FDA on the design or clinical endpoints required for additional clinical studies or re-read of images from the Phase III trials. Further, we cannot assume that any such agreed upon clinical studies will be feasible for us to conduct or whether such studies will be completed in a commercially reasonable timeframe, if at all. Any further clinical studies that are required could take several years to complete. If the FDA does not approve Vasovist, then we will not receive revenues based on sales of Vasovist in the U.S. We do not expect revenues from the commercial sales of any of our products, other than Vasovist, for at least several years. We are currently conducting a feasibility clinical trial of EP-2104R. Our partner, Schering AG, has an option to exclusively license EP-2104R. The exercisability of this option will continue for a specified period of time after the completion of this clinical trial. If the results of the clinical trial are positive and Schering AG exercises its option to exclusively license the product, then we will receive milestone payments for certain clinical and regulatory achievements and a royalty after the product is commercialized. However, if the results are not positive, Schering AG may decline to exercise its option, in which case we may bear the expenses of further clinical development ourselves. Regardless of whether 16 Table of Contents Schering AG exercises its option to license EP-2104R, the FDA, the European Commission and other regulatory agencies to which we or Schering AG submit applications for marketing authorization may not agree that our product is safe and effective and may not approve our product, in which case our ability to receive both milestone payments and royalty payments related to EP-2104R will be significantly reduced. The relevant regulatory authorities may not approve any of our applications for marketing authorization relating to any of our products, including Vasovist and EP-2104R, or additional applications for or variations to marketing authorizations that we may make in the future as to these or other products. Among other things, we have had only limited experience in preparing applications and obtaining regulatory approvals. If approval is granted, it may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor safety or efficacy of the product. If approval of an application to market a product is not granted on a timely basis or at all, or we are unable to maintain our approval, our business may be materially harmed. If our clinical trials are not successful, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our products. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our potential products, we and our partners will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products. To date, Vasovist and EP-2104R are currently our only product candidates that have undergone human clinical trials and we cannot be certain that any of our other research projects will yield a product candidate suitable for substantial human clinical testing. With respect to both our current products in human clinical trials and our research products which may be suitable for testing in human clinical trials at some point in the future, we may not be able to commence or complete the required clinical trials in any specified time period, or at all, either because the FDA or other regulatory agencies object, because we are unable to attract or retain clinical trial participants, or for other reasons. Even if we complete a clinical trial of one of our potential products, the data collected from the clinical trial may not demonstrate that our product is safe or effective to the extent required by the FDA, the EMEA, or other regulatory agencies to approve the potential product, or at all. For example, in November 2005, the FDA informed us that the data for Vasovist that we submitted in connection with our NDA was not adequate for approval. The results from preclinical testing of a product that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger scale, advanced-stage clinical trials. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, or a regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the trials may suspend clinical trials at any time if the patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, or for other reasons. The timing of completion of clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and the availability of alternative treatments. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and prolonged clinical development. In addition, patients may withdraw from a clinical trial for a variety of reasons. If we fail to accrue and maintain the number of patients into one of our clinical trials for which the clinical trial was designed, the statistical power of that clinical trial may be reduced which would make it harder to demonstrate that the products being tested in such clinical trial are safe and effective. Regulatory authorities, clinical investigators, institutional review boards, data safety monitoring boards and the hospitals at which our clinical trials are conducted all have the power to stop our clinical trials prior to completion. If our studies are not completed, we would be unable to show the safety and efficacy required to obtain marketing authorization for our products. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements to which we and our products are subject, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we could be subject to penalties. We are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory requirements and lengthy approval processes for our product candidates. The development and commercial use of our product candidates will be regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the U.S., including the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. The nature of our research and development and manufacturing processes requires the use of hazardous substances and testing on certain laboratory animals. Accordingly, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes as well as the use of and care for laboratory animals. If we fail to comply or if an accident occurs, we may be exposed to legal risk and be required to pay significant penalties or be held liable for any damages that result. Such liability could exceed our financial resources. Furthermore, current laws could change and new laws could be passed that may force us to change our policies and procedures, an event which could impose significant costs on us. Specifically, Vasovist and EP-2104R are regulated by the FDA as drugs. Under the FD&C Act and the FDA’s implementing regulations, the FDA regulates the research, development, manufacture and marketing, among other things, of pharmaceutical products. The process required by the FDA before Vasovist and our other product candidates may be marketed in the U.S. typically involves the performance of pre-clinical laboratory and animal tests; submission of an IND; completion of human clinical trials; submission of a NDA to the FDA; and FDA approval of the NDA. This regulatory approval process is lengthy and expensive. Although some of our employees have experience in obtaining regulatory approvals, we have only limited experience in filing or pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Pre-clinical testing of our product development candidates is subject to Good Laboratory Practices, as prescribed by the FDA, and the manufacture of any products developed by us will be subject to Good Manufacturing Practices, as prescribed by the FDA. We may not obtain the necessary FDA approvals and subsequent approvals in a timely manner, if at all. We cannot be sure as to the length of the clinical trial period or the number of patients that will be required to be tested in the clinical trials in order to establish the safety and efficacy of Vasovist for regulatory approval in the U.S. or any of our future product candidates. Our clinical trials may not be successful and we may not complete them in a timely manner. We could report serious side effects as the clinical trials proceed. Our results from early clinical trials may not predict results that we obtain in later clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The rate of completion of our clinical trials depends upon, among other things, the rate of patient enrollment and subsequent blinded reading of images and data analysis. Furthermore, we, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time, including terminating clinical trials for safety reasons. In addition, the FDA may suggest or require alterations to clinical trials at any time. For example, in September 2001, after discussions with the FDA, we expanded our initial target indication for Vasovist from one specific body region, the aortoiliac region, to a broader indication that included the entire body’s vascular system, except for the heart. This expansion required us to add two new clinical trials to our then existing Phase III clinical trial program; one to determine the efficacy of Vasovist-enhanced MRA for the detection of vascular disease in the renal arteries, and another to determine the efficacy of Vasovist-enhanced MRA for the detection of vascular disease in the pedal arteries. Although providing us with greater market potential for the sale of Vasovist upon approval, this change to our Phase III clinical trial program and the associated delay in the startup of new clinical centers resulted in an approximate fifteen month delay in our NDA submission and an increase in costs associated with the program. If we do not successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates, we will not be able to market these product candidates. In addition, we may encounter unanticipated delays or significant costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals. Our analysis of data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities is subject to 18 Table of Contents confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities which could delay, limit or prevent FDA regulatory approval. In addition, the FDA may require us to modify our future clinical trial plans or to conduct additional clinical trials in ways that we cannot currently anticipate, resulting in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval. Delays in obtaining government regulatory approval could adversely affect our, or our partner’s, marketing as well as the ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Future U.S. legislative or administrative actions also could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product. A marketed product also is subject to continual FDA and other regulatory agency review and regulation. Later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. Further, many academic institutions and companies conducting research and clinical trials in the MRI contrast agent field are using a variety of approaches and technologies. If researchers obtain any adverse results in pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, it could adversely affect the regulatory environment for MRI contrast agents in general. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product’s efficacy and side effects. Results of these post-marketing programs may prevent or limit the further marketing of the monitored product. If we, or our partners, such as Schering AG, cannot successfully market our products, we will not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. Our strategic partners and we are also subject to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements governing the design and conduct of clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of our products. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, thereby compromising our ability to market our products abroad. In addition, the testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products, both before and after approval, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. Failure to comply with the law administered by the FDA, the EMEA, or other governmental authorities could result in any of the following: • delay in approval or refusal to approve a product; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • warning letters; • injunctions; • criminal prosecutions; and • unanticipated expenditures. We are required to maintain pharmacovigilance systems for collecting and reporting information concerning suspected adverse reactions to our products. In response to pharmacovigilance reports, regulatory authorities may initiate proceedings to revise the prescribing information for our products or to suspend or revoke our marketing authorizations. Procedural safeguards are often limited, and marketing authorizations can be suspended with little or no advance notice. Both before and after approval of a product, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform to cGMP. Regulatory authorities, including the EMEA and the FDA, periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, we and our contract manufacturers 19 Table of Contents will need to continue to expend time, monies, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. In addition to regulations adopted by the EMEA, the FDA, and other foreign regulatory authorities, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other federal, state, and local regulations. Our research and development efforts may not result in products appropriate for testing in human clinical trials. We have historically spent significant resources on research and development and preclinical studies of product candidates. However, these efforts may not result in the development of products appropriate for testing in human clinical trials. For example, our research may result in product candidates that are not expected to be effective in treating diseases or may reveal safety concerns with respect to product candidates. In connection with our recent restructuring, we postponed or terminated several research and development programs, and we may postpone or terminate research and development of a product candidate or a program at any time for any reason such as the safety or effectiveness of the potential product, allocation of resources or unavailability of qualified research and development personnel. The failure to generate high-quality research and development candidates would negatively impact our ability to advance product candidates into human clinical testing and ultimately, negatively impact our ability to market and sell products. We have a limited manufacturing capability and we intend to outsource manufacturing of Vasovist to third parties, who may not perform as we expect. We do not have, nor do we currently have plans to develop, full-scale manufacturing capability for Vasovist. While we have manufactured small amounts of Vasovist for research and development efforts, we rely on, and we intend to continue to rely on, Tyco/ Mallinckrodt as the primary manufacturer of Vasovist for any future human clinical trials and commercial use. Together with Schering AG, we are considering alternative manufacturing arrangements for Vasovist for commercial use, including the transfer of manufacturing to Schering AG. In the event that Tyco/ Mallinckrodt fails to fulfill its manufacturing responsibilities satisfactorily, Schering AG has the right to purchase Vasovist from a third party or to manufacture the compound itself. However, either course of action could materially delay the manufacture and development of Vasovist. Schering AG may not be able to find an alternative manufacturer. In addition, Schering AG may not be able to manufacture Vasovist itself in a timely manner. If we experience a delay in manufacturing, it could result in a delay in the approval or commercialization of Vasovist and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. TECHNOLOGY RISKS If MRI manufacturers are not able to enhance their hardware and software sufficiently, we will not be able to complete development of our contrast agent for the evaluation of cardiac indications. Although MRI hardware and software is sufficient for the evaluation of non-coronary vascular disease, which is our initial target indication, we believe that the technology is not as advanced for cardiac applications. Our initial NDA filing for Vasovist is related to non-coronary vascular disease. Imaging sequences on scanners currently allow for the use of Vasovist-enhanced MRA for diagnosing non-coronary vascular disease, our lead indication. Based on feasibility studies we completed in 2001, however, the imaging technology available for cardiac applications, including coronary angiography and cardiac perfusion imaging, was not developed to the point where there was clear visualization of the cardiac region due to the effects of motion from breathing and from the beating of the heart. In 2004, we initiated Phase II feasibility studies of Vasovist for cardiac indications using available software and hardware that can be adapted for coronary and cardiac perfusion data acquisition, and preliminary review of the data indicates that we have not resolved the technical issues related to this use of Vasovist. We have collaborated with a number of leading academic institutions and with GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Systems and Philips 20 Table of Contents Medical Systems to help optimize cardiac imaging with Vasovist. We do not know when, or if, these techniques will enable Vasovist to provide clinically relevant images in cardiac indications. If MRI device manufacturers are not able to enhance their scanners to perform clinically useful cardiac imaging, we will not be able to complete our development activities of Vasovist for that application, thereby reducing the potential market for a product in this area. We depend on exclusively licensed technology from the Massachusetts General Hospital and if we lose this license, it is unlikely we could obtain this technology elsewhere, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the terms of a license agreement that we have with MGH, we are the exclusive licensee to certain technology, which relate to royalties we receive and to Vasovist. The license agreement imposes various commercialization, sublicensing, royalty and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these and other requirements, our license could convert from exclusive to nonexclusive, or terminate entirely. It is unlikely that we would be able to obtain this technology elsewhere. Any such event would mean that we would not receive royalties from Bracco for MultiHance® or Schering AG for Primovist, and that we or Schering AG could not sell Vasovist, and would therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, we believe we are in compliance with the terms of the license agreement and we do not have any reason to believe that this license may be terminated. We depend on patents and other proprietary rights, and if they fail to protect our business, we may not be able to compete effectively. The protection of our proprietary technologies is material to our business prospects. We pursue patents for our product candidates in the U.S. and in other countries where we believe that significant market opportunities exist. We own or have an exclusive license to patents and patent applications on aspects of our core technology as well as many specific applications of this technology. Even though we hold numerous patents and have made numerous patent applications, because the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms, including ours, generally include complex legal and factual questions, our patent positions remain uncertain. For example, because most patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing, we cannot be certain that the named applicants or inventors of the subject matter covered by our patent applications or patents, whether directly owned or licensed to us, were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Third parties may oppose, challenge, infringe upon, circumvent or seek to invalidate existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us. A court or other agency with jurisdiction may find our patents invalid, not infringed or unenforceable and we cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future. Even if we have valid patents, these patents still may not provide sufficient protection against competing products or processes. If we are unable to successfully protect our proprietary methods and technologies, or if our patent applications do not result in issued patents, we may not be able to prevent other companies from practicing our technology and, as a result, our competitive position may be harmed. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could result in our incurrence of substantial costs and which could result in the forfeiture of these rights. We may need to bring costly and time-consuming litigation against third parties in order to enforce our issued patents, protect our trade secrets and know how, or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition to being costly and time-consuming, such lawsuits could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits could also result in the invalidation or a limitation in the scope of our patents or forfeiture of the rights associated with our patents or pending patent applications. We may not prevail and a court may find damages or award other remedies in favor of an opposing party in any such lawsuits. During the course of these suits, there may be 21 Table of Contents public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. In addition, the cost of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Other rights and measures that we rely upon to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to protect our products and services and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. While we require employees, collaborators, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements, where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: • the agreements may be breached; • we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; • proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or • others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If for any of the above reasons our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. Moreover, several of our management and scientific personnel were formerly associated with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic institutions. In some cases, these individuals are conducting research in similar areas with which they were involved prior to joining us. As a result, we, as well as these individuals, could be subject to claims of violation of trade secrets and similar claims. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others, and if we are unable to do so, we may not be able to sell our products. Our commercial success will depend, to a significant degree, on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents of others in the U.S. and abroad. There may be pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with us relating to technologies we use in the development or use of certain of our contrast agents. If any judicial or administrative proceeding upholds these or any third party patents as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in such patents, or would be required to obtain licenses from the owners of each such patent, or to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. For example, in November 2003, we entered into an intellectual property agreement with Dr. Martin R. Prince, an early innovator in the field of MRA relating to “dynamic” MRA, which involves capturing MRA images during the limited time, typically 30 to 60 seconds, available for imaging with extracellular agents. Under the terms of the intellectual property agreement, Dr. Prince made certain covenants and agreements and granted us certain discharges, licenses and releases in connection with the use of Vasovist. In consideration of Dr. Prince entering into the agreement, we agreed to pay him an upfront fee and royalties on sales of Vasovist consistent with a non-exclusive early stage academic license and agreed to deliver to him 132,000 shares of our common stock and certain quantities of Vasovist. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to design around these or any third party patents, we may be unable to sell our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to get adequate levels of reimbursement from third party payors for our product candidates after they are approved in the U.S. and abroad, we may have difficulty commercializing our product candidates. We believe that reimbursement in the future will be subject to increased restrictions, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the health care industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services, including products offered by us. There can be no assurance, in either the U.S. or foreign markets, that third party reimbursement will be available or adequate, that current reimbursement amounts will not be decreased in the future or that future legislation, regulation, or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our product candidates or our ability to sell our product candidates on a profitable basis, particularly if MRI exams enhanced with our contrast agents are more expensive than competing vascular imaging techniques that are equally effective. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party payor coverage or reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors, particularly to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement for procedures in which our product candidates would be used. Failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third party payors for the procedures in which our products would be used or adverse changes in governmental and private third party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for such procedures may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and, consequently, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we obtain the necessary foreign regulatory approvals, market acceptance of our product candidates in international markets would be dependent, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We and our strategic partners intend to seek international reimbursement approvals, although we cannot assure you that any such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and failure to receive international reimbursement approvals could have an adverse effect on market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which such approvals are sought. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would hurt our ability to compete. In September 2005, our Board of Directors appointed Michael J. Astrue as Interim Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Astrue replaced Michael Webb, who resigned from EPIX and our Board of Directors in September 2005. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer resigned in July 2006. We currently have no Chief Financial Officer and our Executive Director, Finance, is serving as our Principal Accounting Officer. Our future business and operating results depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and key technical personnel. If we are unable to hire such personnel on a permanent basis or if any such personnel were to be hired away from us by a competitor, or if for any reason, they could not continue to work for us, we could have difficulty hiring officers with equivalent skills in general, financial and research management, and our ability to achieve our business objectives or to operate or compete in our industry may be seriously impaired. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future business and operating results also depend, in significant part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, operational and technical personnel. Competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. If we were to lose these employees to our competitors, we could spend a significant amount of time and resources to replace them, which would impair our research and development or commercialization efforts. We may also incur significant costs relating to retention or severance of employees if the FDA requires us to perform 23 Table of Contents additional studies or other procedures for the approval of Vasovist and if we undertake an acquisition designed to diversify our business into the field of therapeutics. BUSINESS RISKS We are actively pursuing a transformative transaction at considerable expense and with significant time involvement by management, and we may fail to consummate this transformative transaction or fail to realize the benefits of the transformative transaction. Our goal is to execute a transformative transaction that results in the formation of a specialty pharmaceuticals company with capabilities in both therapeutics and diagnostic imaging. We believe that our financial position and our publicly traded common stock, together with our pipeline of innovative diagnostic imaging products, could make us an attractive partner for a privately-held therapeutics company with promising technology and clinical-stage products. The criteria being used to evaluate potential merger candidates include (1) the number of products such companies have in human clinical trials, (2) the quality and depth of management of the merger candidate, (3) the geographic location of such companies, with a clear preference given to Massachusetts-based companies, and (4) the avoidance of speculative technologies, such as RNA interference and gene therapy. Although we are not able to estimate if or when such a strategic transaction may be consummated, we are actively pursuing such a transaction and are in discussions with several potential partners. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete such a transaction. If we fail to complete a transformative transaction, we will have spent significant time and resources without result and we will have to formulate a new strategy for our company going forward. Even if we succeed in consummating a transformative transaction, we may fail to realize the benefits we believe will result from such a transaction. In addition to the risks associated with our business as it is currently constituted, reasons for the failure of any transformative transaction could include risks associated with the partner’s business, including all the risks associated with a development-stage therapeutics company, and an inability to successfully integrate two organizations or otherwise realize the perceived benefits of such a transaction. Our stock price is volatile. It is possible that you may lose all or part of your investment. The market prices of the capital stock of medical technology companies have historically been very volatile and the market price of the shares of our common stock fluctuates. The market price of our common stock is affected by numerous factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovation or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • new collaborations entered into by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; • results of pre-clinical and clinical trials; • the timing of our achievement of regulatory milestones; • conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other technology industries; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting such industries; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • perceptions of the value of corporate transactions; and • degree of trading liquidity in our common stock and general market conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $17.39 to $3.79. The last reported closing price for our common stock on December 31, 2005 was $4.04. If our stock price declines significantly, we may be unable to raise additional capital. Significant declines in 24 Table of Contents the price of our common stock could also impede our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and reduce the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stock of similarly staged companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, shareholders have often brought class action securities litigation against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. For example, in January 2005, a securities class action was filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts against us and certain of our officers on behalf of persons who purchased our common stock between July 10, 2003 and January 14, 2005. The complaint alleged that we and the other defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements to the market throughout the class period, which statements had the effect of artificially inflating the market price of our securities. In January 2006, the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts granted our Motion to Dismiss for Failure to Prosecute the shareholder class action lawsuit against us. The dismissal was issued without prejudice after a hearing, which dismissal does not prevent another suit to be brought based on the same claims. We have never generated revenues from commercial sales of our products. We currently have no products for sale and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have marketable products. Vasovist was approved for commercial sale in Europe in October 2005 and will be marketed and sold by our partner, Schering AG. We expect to receive a typical pharmaceutical royalty based on the sale of Vasovist by Schering AG in Europe. If Schering AG launches Vasovist in the first half of 2006, as expected, and if they are able to successfully market and sell Vasovist in Europe, we expect that the royalties received by us will be between $200,000 and $800,000 for 2006 sales. If Schering AG fails to launch Vasovist in the timeframes we anticipate or fails to achieve the sales we anticipate, we may receive even less royalty income than we currently expect to receive. We have never generated positive cash flow, and if we fail to generate revenue, it will have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have received revenues from payments made under licensing, royalty arrangements and product development and marketing agreements with strategic collaborators. In particular, our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $7.2 million and consisted of $4.2 million from the product development portion of our collaboration agreements with Schering AG for Vasovist, EP-2104R and MRI research; $2.3 million from the royalty agreements with Bracco and Schering AG and $661,000 of license fee revenue related to the strategic collaboration agreements for the development, manufacturing and marketing of Vasovist with Schering AG and Tyco/ Mallinckrodt and patent licensing with Bracco. In addition to these sources of revenue, we have financed our operations to date through public stock and debt offerings, private sales of equity securities and equipment lease financings. Although we are currently in compliance with the terms of our collaboration and licensing agreements, the revenues derived from them are subject to fluctuation in timing and amount. We may not receive anticipated revenue under our existing collaboration or licensing agreements, these agreements may be subject to disputes and, additionally, these agreements may be terminated upon certain circumstances. Therefore, to achieve profitable and sustainable operations, we, alone or with others, must successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, introduce, market and sell products. We may not receive revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates for the next several years because we, and our partners, may not: • successfully complete our product development efforts; • obtain required regulatory approvals in a timely manner, if at all; 25 Table of Contents • manufacture our product candidates at an acceptable cost and with acceptable quality; or • successfully market any approved products. As a result, we may never generate revenues from sales of our product candidates and our failure to generate positive cash flow could cause our business to fail. We anticipate future losses and may never become profitable. Our future financial results are uncertain. We have experienced significant losses since we commenced operations in 1992. Our accumulated net losses as of December 31, 2005 were approximately $179.6 million. These losses have primarily resulted from expenses associated with our research and development activities, including pre-clinical and clinical trials, and general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will remain significant in the future and we expect to incur losses over at least the next three years as we continue our research and development efforts, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and as we implement manufacturing, marketing and sales programs. In particular, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials in order to achieve FDA approval of Vasovist, which trials would be expensive and which could contribute to our continuing to incur losses beyond the next three years. As a result, we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all, and if we do, we may not remain profitable for any substantial period of time. If we fail to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may decline and consequently our business may not be sustainable. If the market does not accept our technology and products, we may not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. The commercial success of Vasovist and our other product candidates, if approved for marketing by the FDA and corresponding foreign agencies, depends on their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. While contrast agents are currently used in an estimated 25% to 35% of all MRI exams, there are no MRI agents approved by the FDA for vascular imaging. Furthermore, clinical use of MRA has been limited and use of MRA for some vascular disease imaging has occurred mainly in research and academic centers. Market acceptance, and thus sales of our products, will depend on several factors, including: • safety; • cost-effectiveness relative to alternative vascular imaging methods; • availability of third party reimbursement; • ease of administration; • clinical efficacy; and • availability of competitive products. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability and that of our strategic partners to educate the medical community and third party payors about the benefits of diagnostic imaging with Vasovist-enhanced MRA compared to imaging with other technologies. Vasovist represents a new approach to imaging the non-coronary vascular system, and market acceptance both of MRA as an appropriate imaging technique for the non-coronary vascular system, and of Vasovist, is critical to our success. If Vasovist or any of our other product candidates, when and if commercialized, do not achieve market acceptance, we may not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. We may need to raise additional funds necessary to fund our operations, and if we do not do so, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily through our public offerings of common stock, private sales of equity securities, debt financing, equipment lease financings and product 26 Table of Contents development revenue, and royalty and license payments from our strategic partners. Although we believe that we have adequate funding for the foreseeable future, we may need to raise substantial additional funds for research, development and other expenses through equity or debt financings, strategic alliances or otherwise. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the following: • the progress and scope of clinical trials; • the timing and costs of filing future regulatory submissions; • the timing and costs required to receive both U.S. and foreign governmental approvals; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; • the timing and costs of product introductions; • the extent of our ongoing and any new research and development programs; • the costs of training physicians to become proficient with the use of our products; and • the costs of developing marketing and distribution capabilities. Based on our current plans, expense rates, targeted timelines and our view regarding acceptance of Vasovist in the marketplace, we estimate that cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand as of December 31, 2005 will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next several years. If we consider other opportunities or change our planned activities, we may require additional funding. We are exploring the diversification of our product pipeline through the potential acquisition of therapeutic drug programs. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, superior products or product candidates, manufacturing capabilities and/or marketing expertise, and we may not be able to compete with them successfully. The healthcare industry is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological change and there are several companies that are working to develop products similar to ours. However, there are a number of general use MRI agents approved for marketing in the U.S. and in certain foreign markets that, if used or developed for MR angiography, are likely to compete with Vasovist. Such products include Magnevist® and Gadovist® by Schering AG, Dotarem® by Guerbet, S.A., Omniscan® by GE Healthcare, ProHance® and MultiHance® by Bracco and OptiMARK® by Tyco/ Mallinckrodt. We are aware of five agents under clinical development that have been or are being evaluated for use in MRA: Schering AG’s Gadomer and SHU555C, Guerbet’s Vistarem®, Bracco’s B-22956/1, Ferropharm’s Code VSOP-C184, and Advanced Magnetics’ Ferumoxytol. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in the future in developing products that are more effective than any that we are developing. We believe that our ability to compete in developing MRI contrast agents depends on a number of factors, including the success and timeliness with which we complete FDA trials, the breadth of applications, if any, for which our products receive approval, and the effectiveness, cost, safety and ease of use of our products in comparison to the products of our competitors. Public information on the status of clinical development and performance characteristics for these agents is limited. However, many of these competitors have substantially greater capital and other resources than we do and may represent significant competition for us. These companies may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than any of those that we may develop. In addition, these companies may be more successful than we are in developing, manufacturing and marketing their products. Moreover, there are several well-established medical imaging methods that currently compete and will continue to compete with MRI, including digital subtraction angiography, or DSA, which is an improved form of X-ray angiography, computed tomography angiography, or CTA, nuclear medicine and ultrasound, 27 Table of Contents and there are companies that are actively developing the capabilities of these competing methods to enhance their effectiveness in vascular system imaging. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully in the future, or that developments by others will not render Vasovist or our future product candidates obsolete or non-competitive, or that our collaborators or customers will not choose to use competing technologies or products. Any inability to compete successfully on our part will have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. We currently depend on our strategic collaborators for support in product development and the regulatory approval process and, in the future, will depend on them for product marketing support as well. These efforts may suffer if we experience problems with our collaborators. We depend on strategic collaborators for support in product development and the regulatory approval process as well as a variety of other activities including manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products in the U.S. and abroad, when, and if, the FDA and corresponding foreign agencies approve our product candidates for marketing. To date, we have entered into strategic alliances and collaborations with Schering AG, Tyco/ Mallinckrodt, GE Healthcare, Philips Medical Systems and Siemens Medical Systems. Four of our key agreements include three collaboration agreements with Schering AG to perform joint research and to develop and commercialize Vasovist, EP-2104R and other MRI vascular agents worldwide, and an agreement with Tyco/ Mallinckrodt granting Tyco/ Mallinckrodt rights to enter into an agreement with Schering AG to manufacture Vasovist for clinical development and commercial use. We may not receive milestone payments from these alliances should Vasovist or EP-2104R fail to meet certain performance targets in development and commercialization. Further, our receipt of revenues from strategic alliances is affected by the level of efforts of our collaborators. Our collaborators may not devote the resources necessary to complete development and commence marketing of Vasovist, EP-2104R or other products in their respective territories, or they may not successfully market Vasovist, EP-2104R or other products. In addition, Schering AG and Tyco/ Mallinckrodt currently manufacture imaging agents for other technologies that will compete against Vasovist and Schering AG will be responsible for setting the price of the product worldwide. However, Schering AG may not set prices in a manner that maximizes revenues for us. Our failure to receive future milestone payments, or a reduction or discontinuance of efforts by our partners would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our collaboration agreement with Schering AG may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including if there is a material breach of the agreement by either of us. In October 2005, we announced that we had entered into an amendment to our research collaboration agreement with Schering AG. This amendment narrowed the definition of the field of collaboration. This research collaboration expires in May 2006, and we believe that it is unlikely that the parties will extend the term of the collaboration. We expect to discuss the disposition of current research programs with Schering AG prior to expiration of the collaboration and to continue to advance at least some of these programs either unilaterally or with another partner. While the research agreement is separate from our agreement with Schering AG relating to Vasovist and EP-2104R and the expiration of the research agreement does not affect either Vasovist or EP-2104R, we cannot predict how the disposition or winding down of the individual research programs will occur, or whether we will be able to take forward any of these research programs ourselves or find alternative partners for these programs. In addition, we intend to seek additional collaborations with third parties who may negotiate provisions that allow them to terminate their agreements with us prior to the expiration of the negotiated term under certain circumstances. If Schering AG or any other third party collaborator were to terminate its agreements with us, if we are unable to negotiate an acceptable agreement with Schering AG relating to a new research agreement or if Schering AG or any other third party collaborator otherwise fail to perform its obligations under our collaboration or to complete them in a timely manner, we could lose significant revenue. If we are unable to enter into future strategic alliances with capable partners on commercially reasonable terms, we may delay the development and commercialization of future product candidates and could possibly postpone them indefinitely. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on certain of our collaborators, such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Systems and Philips Medical Systems, to develop software that can be used to enhance or suppress veins or arteries from Vasovist-enhanced MRA images. Although not required for clinical use of Vasovist, the ability to separate veins from arteries using Vasovist-enhanced MRA may be useful to clinicians in reading Vasovist-enhanced images for the evaluation of vascular disease. Therefore, if our collaborators do not develop or implement the required software successfully, some clinicians may not be able to easily interpret the information provided from Vasovist-enhanced images and may not be inclined to use the product. Our inability to market Vasovist successfully to clinicians would have a material adverse effect on our business. Product liability claims could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. The clinical testing of our approved products and the manufacturing and marketing of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims and we may experience material product liability losses in the future. We currently have limited product liability insurance for the use of our product candidates in clinical research, but our coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or adequate for liabilities we actually incur. We do not have product liability insurance coverage for the commercial sale of our products, but intend to obtain such coverage when and if we commercialize our product candidates. However, we may not be able to obtain adequate additional product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We significantly increased our leverage as a result of the sale of our 3.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024. In connection with the sale of our 3.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024, we have incurred indebtedness of $100.0 million. The amount of our indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to regulatory approvals and sales of our products, as well as other financial and business factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Certain anti-takeover clauses in our charter and by-laws and in Delaware law and the change of control provisions of our convertible senior notes may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended or the Restated Certificate, authorizes the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock or of rights to purchase preferred stock could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, the possible issuance of preferred stock could discourage a proxy contest, make more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. The Restated Certificate provides for staggered terms for the members of the Board of Directors. A staggered Board of Directors and certain provisions of our By-laws and of Delaware law applicable to us could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. We are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or 29 Table of Contents more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us without action by the stockholders and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, the indenture governing the terms of our bonds contains provisions requiring repayment of the entire debt upon a change of control, which could be a substantial impediment to our effecting a merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 