D. Risk factors. This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operation or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations or prospects. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our business strategy has evolved significantly over time, and our limited operating history in the solar business may not serve as an adequate measure for our future results of operations. We have limited experience in the solar business in which we are currently engaged. We were formed in 1995 and have engaged in a number of different businesses, including sanitary wares and ceramic tiles manufacturing, Internet-related business and nutraceutical-related business. We launched our solar energy business in September 2007, completed the installation of our first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line in June 2008 and made our first commercial shipment of solar base plates in December 2008. Our technology for SnO2 base plates manufacturing is in its early stages, and we did not successfully ramp up the production line to its full capacity as we expected, which resulted in no sales of the SnO2 base plates in 2009. In 2010, we commenced the establishment of a new factory to produce solar modules, and we cannot yet ascertain when we will deliver the first commercial shipment of the modules. In addition, we intend to enter into the advertising and media business through our pending acquisition of Xintang Media Technology (Beijing) Limited. Our historical operating results do not reflect our current focus on the solar industry and, as such, do not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our current or planned businesses or our future prospects. Accordingly, despite our 15-year history, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in the rapidly evolving solar industry and, upon completion of the Xintang acquisition, to enter into China’s advertising and media industry. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. 6 Table of Contents We have incurred significant operating losses, and we do not know whether we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses in the preceding five years as follows: Operating loss Year (in thousands of Rmb) 2005 (13,407 ) 2006 (30,785 ) 2007 (24,495 ) 2008 (24,338 ) 2009 (32,331 ) Our solar business generated no revenues in 2007, de minimis revenues in 2008 and no revenues in 2009. During those years, we have expended and anticipate that we will continue to expend significant financial and other resources in order to construct, start-up, test-run and ramp up our solar business. The rapidly evolving markets in which we operate our solar business make it difficult for us to predict our future performance. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is uncertain and will depend largely on the successful commercialization of our solar products. If we fail to operate our production lines up to their designed capacity, or if our construction and ramp-up costs significantly exceed our original budget, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We cannot accurately estimate our future operating losses because our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: • the need to procure additional equipment at reasonable cost and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance the construction and ramp-up of production lines, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • product upgrading or updating by us or our competitors; • our competitors’ price changes; • our research and development and marketing activities; • our acquisition costs of new technology or businesses; • employee wage pressure arising from increased competition for skilled employees and increased governmental staff welfare regulations; and • extraordinary costs incurred for any acquisitions or reductions in force. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these factors, or by additional factors of which we are currently unaware. As a result, we do not know whether we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. We expect that we will need to obtain additional financing to continue to operate our solar business, including significant capital expenditures to increase our production capacity. If we cannot obtain additional financing when we need it, our growth prospects and results of operations for our solar business may be materially adversely affected. We have in the past experienced substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations, and we expect that we will continue to need significant financing to operate our solar business. In particular, we expect that we will require significant additional capital to expand the manufacturing capacity of our solar production lines. We will also need cash resources to fund our solar research and development activities in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. In addition, future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional financing. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: 7 Table of Contents • the trading price of our common stock on Nasdaq; • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in the solar industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We do not know whether additional financing will be available or whether the terms of such additional financing, if available, will be acceptable to us. If additional financing is not available or not available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, our ability to fund our solar business, expand our solar manufacturing operations, maintain our solar research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly impaired. If we are required to pay higher than anticipated costs for additional financing, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could be required to make operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. If new shares are issued for equity financing or acquisition purposes, interests of existing shareholders will be diluted. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy and manage our planned solar business expansion effectively. We anticipate growth in market demand for our photovoltaic, or PV, products in the future, which will require us to continue to expand our business to capture emerging market opportunities and increase our penetration and market share. Our growth strategy requires us to introduce additional solar products through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions, including products for which there are no established markets in China and products with respect to which we lack experience and expertise. We do not know whether we will be able to deliver new solar products on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementing our growth strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To manage this potential expansion of our solar business operations and to enter into China’s advertising and media industry, we will need to improve our operational and financial systems, internal procedures and risk control system, increase our manufacturing throughput, and recruit, train and manage our employee base, especially our engineering and manufacturing operation management team. In addition, our management must maintain and strengthen our relationship with our suppliers, strategic partners, customers and local governments. We do not know whether our current and planned systems and internal controls will be adequate to support our planned expansion. If we are not able to manage our business expansion effectively, we will not be able to execute our business strategy or capitalize on market opportunities, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully in a competitive solar market against competitors with greater resources and more advanced technologies. Many of our competitors in the solar industry have one or more of the following advantages over us: • longer operating history; • greater financial, technological, marketing, sales and other resources; • profitable operations; • superior product functionality in certain areas; • greater name recognition; • a broader range of products to offer; and • a larger base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their sales, which may result in increased competition. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. As a result of China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, more and more foreign companies are entering into the Chinese markets, which has resulted in greater competition in China’s developing solar industry. 8 Table of Contents Our primary competitors in the manufacture of transparent conductive oxide, or TCO, glass are AFG, Asahi and Pilkington, all of which are leading glass producers with established market positions. Our primary competitors in the manufacture of solar modules include Suntech Power Holdings, Trina Solar Limited and Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited, all of which have greater name recognition than our Company. In addition, we expect to compete with future entrants to the solar market that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from large semiconductor manufacturers, a few of which have already announced their intention to enter the solar business. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the solar market, new competition, and new product developments. The markets in which our solar business is involved are characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Our success will depend on our ability to: • provide a broad range of reliable solar products at the lowest cost; • timely develop and introduce new products incorporating technological advances; • respond promptly to new customer requirements; • comply promptly with evolving industry standards; • control delays and cost overruns due to external factors beyond our control, such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; • qualify for available government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; and • execute our business strategy and expansion plan effectively. We may be unable to generate sales if demand for our solar products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we currently expect. The solar power market is at an early stage of development and the extent of acceptance of solar energy technology and products is uncertain. The demand for our solar products in China may take longer to develop than we currently expect. There are many factors that could affect the demand for solar products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar products compared to non-alternative energy products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar industry; • breakthroughs in other alternative energy technologies, such as wind power and biomass; • price changes of conventional energy sources, such as oil and coal; and • capital expenditures by solar products purchasers, which have decreased during the current economic recession. The occurrence or continuance of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, particularly our technical personnel and executive officers. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar industry and operation management, are vital to our success. If one or more of our executive officers or key technical persons are unable or unwilling to continue their employment, we may not be able to 9 Table of Contents replace them in a timely and effective manner. In that event, our business could be severely disrupted and we may incur significant expense to recruit and retain replacements. Furthermore, one or more of our current key employees could join our competitors or form a new competitive company. Although we have entered into non-competition and confidentiality agreements with a number of these key employees, these types of agreements may not be enforceable in China and our business may be materially adversely affected by breach of any of these agreements. We plan to acquire new businesses, products and technologies in the solar industry. We may not be able to complete these acquisitions or effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products and technologies into our Company. The solar industry is highly competitive and has experienced a significant amount of consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue. We plan to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and technologies in future. In October 2009, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with China Technology Solar Power Holdings Limited, or CTSPHL Group, and its direct and indirect shareholders to acquire a 51% equity interest in CTSPHL Group. CTSPHL Group is developing a 100 megawatt grid-connected solar power plant project in Delingha City located in Qaidam Basin in Qinghai Province, Northwestern China. Upon execution of the stock purchase agreement, we paid US$3 million in cash to CTSPHL Group as a deposit for the transaction. As the date of this Annual Report, the Chinese government has not determined the specific subsidies and incentives for on-grid solar energy applications for Qinghai Province, which resulted in difficulties in determining the fair value of the solar power plant. An independent valuation report in respect of CTSPHL Group and its business is one of conditions precedent to complete the transactions. Accordingly, this acquisition has not been completed and we do not know when, if ever, this acquisition will be completed. Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make will involve a number of risks, and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions. As a result, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. In the event that an acquired company does not perform as anticipated, we could be required to incur a significant impairment of goodwill and other acquired assets. Any impairment of goodwill and other acquired assets may adversely and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may finance these transactions by using our available cash and/or issuing common stock, which could result in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we may incur or assume the acquired company’s liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown at the time of acquisition, which may result in a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may encounter problems integrating any acquired businesses, including: • difficulties assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of any acquired business; • diversion of management attention to business concerns of the acquired business from that of our existing operations; • declining employee morale and retention issues for employees of the acquired business; • risk of litigation by terminated employees and contractors; and • our lack of familiarity with other conditions and business practices of the acquired business. Any failure to successfully integrate any acquired business could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We intend to enter into the advertising and media business through our pending acquisition of Xintang Media Technology (Beijing) Limited. We may not complete the Xintang acquisition, and we have no experience in the advertising and media business. In April 2010, we entered into a cooperation framework agreement with Xintang Media Technology (Beijing) Limited, or Xintang, its shareholders and associated companies, pursuant to which we intend to acquire Xintang. Xintang is a Chinese company and conducts advertising and media business in China. Xinhua News Agency has granted Xintang exclusive rights to operate an advertising network and other relevant value-added business using flat-panel displays installed in lobbies, offices, elevators and other public areas in governmental buildings in certain provinces in China. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have paid Rmb10.5 million to Xintang and its shareholders. The completion of this acquisition is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including a fair value determination by an international independent appraiser, completion of restructuring of the target companies, cooperation between Xintang and Xinhua News Agency and approval from our shareholders in a general meeting. If any of these conditions is not satisfied, we may not be able to complete this acquisition. We have no experience in the advertising and media business. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties and any expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We rely on applicable trademark and copyright laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights in China. We have filed a number of patent applications and intend to seek additional patents as we deem appropriate. We do not know whether patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Even if patents are issued, we do not know whether any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to effectively limit competition against us. Furthermore, any patents that may be issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology and products is difficult. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in technological industries in China are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in China do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have granted, and expect to continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive option plan, which could adversely impact our financial results. We adopted various stock option plans to provide incentives to our directors, employees and consultants. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have an aggregate of 5,354,471 stock options outstanding under our option plans and held by directors, officers, employees and consultants. In our consolidated financial statements, we are required to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense being recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expense associated with share-based compensation may adversely impact our financial results and reduce the attractiveness of stock options as compensation to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. If we do not offer sufficient equity compensation to our directors, officers, employees or consultants, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. We have limited business insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business disruption, litigation or natural disasters. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risk of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance are prohibitive. As a result, except for directors and officers liability insurance, employees’ compensation insurance and social insurance, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Business Operation in China. A substantial majority of our assets are located in China, and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. We are subject to risks relating to changes of political and economic policies and conditions in China. China has been, and will continue to be, our primary production base and a substantial majority of our assets are currently located in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, control of foreign currencies and allocation of resources. While the government has been pursuing economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a substantial part of China’s economy is still being operated under various controls of the Chinese government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, the Chinese government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of industries. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the Chinese government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved over time. Such refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. Our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the economic and social conditions and in the policies of the Chinese government, including the following: • changes in government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar industry; • adjustments in tax regulations; • restrictions on currency conversion; • changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation; • the imposition of confiscatory taxation; • restrictions on imports and sources of supply; • devaluations of currency; and • the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization, we do not know whether the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies or will alter these policies. We may experience foreign currency losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Chinese government controls the conversion of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi. We rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. In the past three years, all of our revenue was received in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the Chinese government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies that are required for current account transactions, such as the payment of dividends to shareholders of foreign invested enterprises like us, can be bought freely at 12 Table of Contents authorized Chinese banks, procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. Chinese companies are required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks, and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts our business operations, and a change in any of these government policies could further negatively impact our operations. The Chinese government recently signaled a return to a managed appreciation of the Renminbi against the dollar. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to use some hedging instruments in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, our experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. Our current business operations may be subject to the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws by courts or governmental agencies. The resolution of any such matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to enact specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by Chinese government directives and regulations. Growth of the solar energy market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Until the Chinese government’s subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid and off-grid solar energy applications for specific provinces and regions are determined, we are not able to predict the future demand, if any, for our products. Globally speaking, the growth of many large solar markets, including Germany, Spain and the United States, depends in part on the availability and amounts of government subsidies and economic incentives. In China, the solar market is still in the early development stage and the Chinese government subsidies policies or other incentive programs have not been clearly specified. Although incentive policy trends, such as special government funding and tax credits, are emerging, significant uncertainty still exists. The Chinese government may decide to reduce or eliminate any of these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Any reduction or elimination of these subsidies or incentives would have a materially adverse impact to the solar energy market in China and our financial performance. Risks Associated with Investing in Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of US$4.78 to a low of US$1.36 during the period from January 1, 2009 to May 28, 2010. On May 28, 2010, the closing price of our common stock on Nasdaq was US$2.88 per share. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new 13 Table of Contents investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price of our common stock to change substantially. In addition, many factors that we cannot control affect our stock price, including the global financial markets and the confidence of the investment community. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock trades. Accordingly, we expect that the price for our common stock on Nasdaq will continue to be volatile in the future. Our internal controls have been deficient historically and require improvement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the US securities laws and, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, are required to include our management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. In addition, in future years our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which are described in more detail in Item 15T “Controls and Procedures.” We plan to take steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and have engaged a consulting firm experienced in handling compliance with these requirements. However, if we are unable to address the existing deficiencies in our existing internal and disclosure controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. We could also become subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions by regulators such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operated, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In all cases, we anticipate that we will incur considerable cost and devote significant management time and effort and other resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have recently issued a significant number of shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with the following transactions: • In September 2008, we issued an aggregate of 498,338 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 1,526,306 shares of common stock to investors. In June 2009, we issued an additional 60,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 90,000 shares of common stock to the same investors. In October 2009, we issued 222,821 shares to the investors upon their exercise of Series B Warrants due to the occurrence of the price reset event. If we issue common stock at a price less than $3.01 per share in the future, we may trigger the anti-dilution provisions embedded in these warrants. • In April 2009, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, China Green Holdings, Ltd., issued a US$10.0 million convertible note to an investor. In November 2009, the investor exchanged the entire principal amount of the convertible note for 3,322,260 shares of our common stock. • In May 2010, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of common stock to China Wanhe Investment Ltd. at a price of $3.01 per share in connection with a private placement. We may require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions or other future developments, and we may need to obtain additional funds through issuance by us or by one or more of our subsidiaries of new equity or debt securities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or convertible debt securities in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock or convertible debt securities. We believe that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on our current income and assets, we believe that for our taxable year ended on December 31, 2009, we may be classified as a PFIC. We could also be a PFIC in 2010, or subsequent years. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC. As a result, our PFIC status may change. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test generally will be calculated using the market price of our common stock, our PFIC status will depend in large part on the market price of our common stock which may fluctuate considerably. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may result in our being a PFIC for any year. In addition, the composition of our income and assets is affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we are a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2009 or any other year during which you hold our common stock, we will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which you hold our common stock. If you are a U.S. investor, in the event we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our common stock, you may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. For more information on PFIC, see “Taxation — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law may be less than those of shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. 14 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most United States jurisdictions. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than you might have as a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, in most United States jurisdictions, directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders, including a duty of care, pursuant to which directors must properly apprise themselves of all reasonably available information, and a duty of loyalty, pursuant to which they must protect the interests of the corporation and refrain from conduct that injures the corporation or its shareholders or that deprives the corporation or its shareholders of any profit or advantage. Many United States jurisdictions have enacted various statutory provisions which permit the monetary liability of directors to be eliminated or limited. Under British Virgin Islands law, liability of a corporate director to the corporation is basically limited to cases of willful malfeasance in the performance of his duties or to cases where the director has not acted honestly and in good faith and with a view to the best interests of the corporation. We do not know whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. As a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. securities laws, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we are exempt from compliance with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans (including those in which our officers or directors may participate), stock issuances that will result in a change in control, the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares or below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have partially complied with the foregoing rules and we may voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions in the future. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under applicable US securities laws for a foreign private issuer. 15 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer for purposes of US securities laws. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the provisions of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the provisions of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. 