Item 1A. Risk Factors” that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements, the following factors could also cause our results to differ from such statements: • our ability to realize cost savings from our expected execution performance of contracts; • the uncertain timing and the funding of new contract awards, and project cancellations and operating risks; • cost overruns on fixed price, target price or similar contracts; • risks associated with percentage-of-completion accounting; • our ability to settle or negotiate unapproved change orders and claims; • changes in the costs or availability of, or delivery schedule for, components, materials, labor or subcontractors; • adverse impacts from weather may affect our performance and timeliness of completion, which could lead to increased costs and affect the costs or availability of, or delivery schedule for, components, materials, labor or subcontractors; • increased competition; • fluctuating revenue resulting from a number of factors, including the cyclical nature of the individual markets in which our customers operate; • lower than expected activity in the hydrocarbon industry, demand from which is the largest component of our revenue; • lower than expected growth in our primary end markets, including but not limited to LNG and clean fuels; • risks inherent in our acquisition strategy and our ability to obtain financing for proposed acquisitions; • our ability to integrate and successfully operate acquired businesses and the risks associated with those businesses; • adverse outcomes of pending claims or litigation or the possibility of new claims or litigation, including pending securities class action litigation, and the potential effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; • the ultimate outcome or effect of the pending FTC order on our business, financial condition and results of operations; • two material weaknesses have been identified in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis; • lack of necessary liquidity to finance expenditures prior to the receipt of payment for the performance of contracts and to provide bid and performance bonds and letters of credit securing our obligations under our bids and contracts; • proposed and actual revisions to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws, and interpretation of said laws, and U.S. tax treaties with non-U.S. countries (including The Netherlands), that seek to increase income taxes payable; • political and economic conditions including, but not limited to, war, conflict or civil or economic unrest in countries in which we operate; and • a downturn or disruption in the economy in general. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future performance or results. We are not obligated to update or revise any forward-looking statements, 17 Table of Contents whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should consider these risks when reading any forward-looking statements. Access to SEC filings is available free of charge at our Internet website, “www.cbi.com.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 