ITEM 1A. Risk Factors VSE's future results may differ materially from past results and from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K due to various uncertainties and risks, including but not limited to those set forth below, one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in other filings with the SEC. 7 Federal procurement directives could result in a loss of work on current programs to set-asides and omnibus contracts. VSE's business with the government is subject to the risk that one or more of the Company's potential contracts or contract extensions may be awarded by the contracting agency to a small or disadvantaged or minority-owned business pursuant to set-aside programs administered by the Small Business Administration, or may be bundled into omnibus contracts for very large businesses. These risks can potentially have an adverse effect on VSE's revenue growth and profit margins. Funding uncertainties for federal programs could adversely affect the Company's ability to continue work on its government contracts. Government contract business is subject to funding delays, terminations, reductions, extensions, and moratoriums caused by political and administrative disagreements within the government. To date, the effect of such negotiations and disagreements on the Company has not been material, but no assurances can be given about such risks with respect to future years. Global economic conditions and political factors could adversely affect revenues on current programs. VSE's business is subject to the risks arising from global economic conditions and political factors associated with current and potential customers served through VSE's contracts with the U.S. Government. An economic slowdown in countries served under the BAV Ship Transfer Program could potentially affect sales. Failure by the government of a potential foreign customer to approve and fund acquisition of U.S. Navy ships serviced under this program could affect sales. BAV sales to Egypt and Taiwan have historically comprised a large percentage of the Company's total sales in any one year. The concentration of a large percentage of work under one or two client countries presents additional risk to the Company. The current international situation posed by potential terrorist activity and the continuing conflict in the Middle East could potentially increase the political risks for revenues from the BAV Ship Transfer, TBPS, and CED Army Equipment Support Programs. International tensions can also affect work by FMD on U.S. Navy ships when they are deployed outside of U.S. Navy facilities and are unavailable for maintenance work during this time period. Adverse results arising from these global economic and political risks could potentially have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. VSE is exposed to contractual and financial liabilities in the event that its subcontractors do not perform satisfactorily. A large percentage of VSE's contract work is performed by subcontractors, which raises certain performance and financial risks to VSE. While subcontractor terms generally specify the terms and performance for which the subcontractor is liable to VSE, in the event of any unsatisfactory performance on the part of subcontractors, the Company still must bear the cost to ensure satisfactory performance on its prime contracts. As a U.S. Government contractor, VSE is subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations that could expose the Company to potential liabilities or loss of work. VSE must comply with and is affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how the Company does business with its customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on the business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. 8 In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at their convenience, as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, the Company would normally be entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost-type contract, the Company would normally be entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would include the cost to terminate agreements with suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. A termination for default could expose the Company to liability and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which the Company is a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of services provided by VSE as a subcontractor. VSE's business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. Government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, the Company may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, the Company could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made. VSE's earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of contracts and programs. At December 31, 2005, funded backlog included both cost-type and fixed- price contracts. Cost-type contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Typically the use of subcontractors and large material purchases on government contracts does not allow for profit margins that are as high as on work performed by Company personnel. Accordingly, the level of work performed on cost-type versus fixed-price contracts and the level of work performed by subcontractors may cause fluctuations in the Company's overall profit margins from year to year or from period to period. VSE uses estimates in accounting for its programs. Changes in estimates could affect future financial results. The Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates affecting the financial statements include the allowance for doubtful accounts and accruals for loss contracts, contract disallowance and self insured health claims, and estimated cost to complete on certain fixed-price contracts. 9 New accounting standards could result in changes to VSE's methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect financial results and financial position. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. Such changes could result in unanticipated effects on results of operations, financial position and other financial measures. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 