D. Risk factors. This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operation or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations or prospects. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our limited operating history and evolving business strategy may not serve as an adequate measure for future prospects and results of our operations. We have limited experience in the solar business in which we are currently engaged. We were formed in 1996 and originally engaged in the sanitary wares and ceramic tiles manufacturing business, which was changed to the Internet-related business in June 2000. We added the nutraceutical-related business in October 2005 and entered into the solar industry in September 2007. In February 2009, we disposed of all of our non-core business in order to concentrate all of our resources on our solar business. Our historical operating results do not reflect our current focus on the solar industry and, as such, do not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our solar business. Our SnO2 base plates manufacturing business is in the early stage of expansion, and we have limited experience upon which to predict whether it will be successful. Accordingly, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a growing and rapidly evolving market. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We have continued to incur operating losses and we cannot provide assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses in the preceding five years as follows: Operating loss* Year (in thousands of Rmb) 2004 (2,981 ) 2005 (13,407 ) 2006 (30,785 ) 2007 (24,495 ) 2008 (24,338 ) 5 Table of Contents * Includes profit from discontinued operations of Rmb0.86 million for 2008 and Rmb1.97 million for 2007 and loss from discontinued operations of Rmb83.50 million for 2006. We launched our solar energy business in September 2007, completed the installation of the first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line in June 2008 and made our first commercial shipment of solar base plates in December 2008. We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and other resources in order to construct, start-up, test-run and ramp up our solar business. The rapidly evolving markets in which we operate our solar business make it difficult for us to estimate our future performance. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future is uncertain and will depend largely on the successful commercialization of our solar products, as to which there can be no assurance. If we fail to make the production lines operational up to their designed capacity or at all, or if the construction and ramp-up costs significantly exceed our original budget, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected and our expansion strategy will be materially hampered. We cannot accurately estimate our future operating losses because our revenues, gross margins and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to, among other things: • the need to procure additional equipment at reasonable costs and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance the construction and ramp-up of the production lines, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • product upgrading or updating progress by us or our competitors; • our competitors’ price changes; • our research and development and marketing abilities; • our acquisition costs of new technology or businesses; • employee wage pressure arising from increased competition for skilled employees and increased governmental staff welfare regulations; and • extraordinary costs incurred for acquisitions or any reductions in work force, if any. Our operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these factors, or by additional factors of which we are currently unaware. We expect that we will need to obtain additional financing to continue to operate our business, including significant capital expenditures to increase our production capacity. If we cannot obtain additional financing when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We have in the past experienced substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations. We expect that we will continue to need significant financing to operate our new business, including capital expenditures to expand our production capacity. In particular, we believe that we will require additional funding for manufacturing capacity expansion of our production lines. We will also need cash resources to fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive on cost and technology. In addition, future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional financing. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We do not know whether additional financing will be available or whether the terms of such additional financing, if available, will be acceptable to us. If additional financing is not available or not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly impaired. If we are required to pay higher than anticipated costs for additional financing, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could be required to make operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. If new shares are issued for equity financing or acquisition purposes, interests of existing shareholders will be diluted. 6 Table of Contents We may not be able to implement our growth strategy and manage our planned business expansion effectively. Our solar business is expanding rapidly. We launched our solar energy business in September 2007, completed the installation of the first SnO2 thin-film base plate production line in June 2008 and made our first commercial shipment of solar base plates in December 2008. We anticipate continued growth in market demand for our photovoltaic, or PV, products in the future, which will require us to continue to expand our business to capture emerging market opportunities and increase our penetration and market share. Our growth strategy requires us to introduce more technological products through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions. Part of this strategy relates to new technological products for which there are no established markets in China, or relates to technological products in which we lack experience and expertise. We do not know whether we will be able to deliver new technological products on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in implementing our strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To manage this potential expansion of our business operations, we will need to improve our operational and financial systems, internal procedures and risk control system, increase the manufacturing throughput, and recruit, train and manage our employee base, especially the engineering and manufacturing operation management team. In addition, our management must maintain and strengthen our relationship with our suppliers, strategic partners, customers and local governments. We do not know whether our current and planned operations systems and internal controls will be adequate to support our rapid expansion. If we are not able to manage our business expansion effectively, we will not be able to execute our business strategy or capitalize on market opportunities, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully in a competitive market against competitors with greater resources and more advanced technologies. The solar industry is developing very rapidly, and many of our competitors have one or more of the following advantages over us: • longer operating history; • greater financial, technological, marketing, sales and other resources; • greater profitability in their operations; • superior product functionality in certain areas; • greater name recognition; • a broader range of products to offer; and • a larger base of customers. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their sales, which may result in increased competition. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors. With China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, more and more foreign companies are entering into the Chinese markets. They also impose great potential competition to our business. In order for our company to survive in this environment, we will need to invest significant financial resources in our research and development to keep up with the technological advances in the PV industry. For example, R&D breakthroughs in crystalline silicon-based solar companies may generate significant cost reductions, which could lead to sudden and sharp drop in sales for thin-film focused solar companies, including our company. Our failure to continually refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share. Our direct competitors are Asahi, Pilkington and AFG, all of which are leading glass producers with established market positions. We will be unable to increase our sales if we fail to attract and retain sufficient customers, establish successful distribution networks and grow our sales and marketing capability for our SnO2 base plates. We expect to compete with future entrants to the solar market that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from large semiconductor manufacturers, a few of which have already announced their intention to enter the solar business. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the market, new competition, and new product developments. The markets in which our solar business is involved are highly fragmented and characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar products will be widely adopted is uncertain. The solar power markets are rapidly evolving and are experiencing technological advances and new market entrants. Market data in the solar industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of 7 Table of Contents time. If thin-film based solar products prove unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for building integrated photovoltaic, or BIPV, fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to generate adequate revenues to support our viability and future growth. Our success will depend on our ability to • provide a broad range of solar thin film products; • timely develop and introduce new products with technological advances; • respond promptly to new customer requirements; • comply promptly with evolving industry standards; • provide reliable thin-film solar products to customers at the lowest costs; • control delays and cost overruns due to many external beyond-control factors such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; • receive available government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; and • execute our business strategy and expansion plan effectively. We may be unable to sustain our sales growth if sufficient demand for thin-film products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we currently expect. The solar power market is at an early stage of development and the extent of acceptance of solar energy technology and products is uncertain. The demand for thin-film based solar products in China may not develop or may take longer to develop than we currently expect. There are many factors that could affect the demand for thin-film based products, including: • efficiency and performance of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products; • cost-effectiveness (cost per watt) of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products and other non-solar energy sources and products; • reliability of thin-film solar products compared to crystalline silicon solar products and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; • breakthrough of other alternative energy technologies, such as wind power and biomass, etc; • price change of other conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as oil; and • capital expenditures by solar products purchasers, which might decrease when the economy slows down. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain a skilled labor force, particularly our technical personnel and executive officers. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry and operation management, are vital to our success. If one or more of our executive officers or key technical persons are unable or unwilling to continue their employment, we may not be able to replace them in a timely and effective manner. In that event, our business could be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new replacements. Furthermore, one or more of our current key employees could join our competitors or form a new competitive company. Although we have entered into non-competition and confidentiality agreements with a number of these key employees, these types of agreements may not be enforceable in China. 8 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our production lines, equipment and consumables, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in delivering equipment or consumables could adversely impact our production. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts. Our current major equipment suppliers include Terra Solar and China Solar. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationship with these and other equipment or consumables suppliers, or should any of our major equipment suppliers encounter difficulties in the manufacturing or shipment of its equipment to us, it would be difficult for us to find alternative providers for such equipment on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, our production may be adversely impacted and the implementation of our expansion plan may be interrupted. We are subject to risks of acquisition of new business, products and technologies. The solar industry is highly competitive and has experienced a significant amount of consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue. We plan to acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and technologies in future. However, a number of companies, many of which have greater financial resources, marketing capabilities and research and development capacities than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce. Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make will involve a number of risks, and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions. We may lose all or a portion of our investment. We may use our available cash and securities to buy or invest in companies or products, which could result in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, we may incur or assume the acquired company’s liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown at the time of acquisition, which may result in a material adverse effect on us. In the event that an acquired company does not perform as anticipated, we could be required to incur a significant impairment of goodwill. Any impairment of goodwill may adversely and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not successfully integrate acquired business, products and technologies. As a component of our business and growth strategy, we intend to acquire companies, products and technologies that we believe will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability. These acquisitions may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of common stock and significant annual impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, each of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may encounter problems in integrating any acquired businesses, including: • difficulties assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of any acquired business; • diversion of management attention to business concerns of the acquired business from that of our existing operations; • declining employee morale and retention issues for employees of the acquired business; • risk of litigation by terminated employees and contractors; and • our lack of familiarity with other conditions and business practices of the acquired business. Any failure to successfully integrate any acquired business could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We rely on applicable trademark and copyright laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights in China. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of China and foreign patents and patent applications, and intend to seek additional patents as we deem appropriate. We do not know whether patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Even if patents are issued, it is uncertain that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to effectively limit competition against us. Furthermore, any patents that may be issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology and products is difficult. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. 9 Table of Contents Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in technological industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in China do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have granted, and expect to continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive option plan, which could adversely impact our financial results. We adopted stock incentive option plans in 1996, 2000, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have an aggregate of 4,353,334 stock options outstanding under our option plans and held by directors, officers, employees and consultants. We are required to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense being recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attraction of issuing stock option as compensation to our directors, officers, employees and consultants. If we don’t offer sufficient equity compensation to our directors, officers, employees or consultants, however, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. We have limited business insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business disruption, litigation or natural disasters. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make having such insurance impractical for us. As a result, except for directors and officers liability insurance, employees’ compensation insurance and fire insurance, property insurance covering our facilities, production equipment and inventory, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Risks Associated with Business Operation in China. A substantial majority of our assets are located in China, and a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. We are subject to risks relating to changes of political and economic policies and conditions in China. China has been, and will continue to be, our primary production base and a substantial majority of our assets are currently located in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, control of foreign currencies and allocation of resources. While the government has been pursuing economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a substantial part of China’s economy is still being operated under various controls of the government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, the government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of industries. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved over time. Such refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. Our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the economic and social conditions and in the policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar industry, adjustments in tax regulations and restrictions on currency conversion. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. 10 Table of Contents We may experience foreign currency losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates. The Chinese government controls the conversion of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi. We rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, all of our revenue was received in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for current account transactions, such as the payment of dividends to shareholders of foreign invested enterprises like our company, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations, and a change in any of these government policies could further negatively impact our operations. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to use some hedging instruments in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. Our current business operations may be subject to the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws by courts or governmental agencies. The resolution of any such matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to enact specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by Chinese government regulations. Growth of the solar energy market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Before the Chinese government’s subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid and off-grid solar energy applications are determined, we are not able to predict the future growth, if any, in demand for our products. Globally speaking, the growth of many large solar markets, including Germany, Spain and the United States, depends in part on the availability and amounts of government subsidies and economic incentives. In China, the solar market is still in the early development stage and the Chinese government subsidies policies or other incentive programs have not been clearly specified. Although we discern a trend towards emerging incentive policies, including special government funding and tax write-off from local governments, significant uncertainty still exists. The Chinese government may decide to reduce or eliminate any of these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Any reduction or elimination of such subsidies or incentives may have a materially adverse impact to the overall market and our revenues. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Investing in Our Common Stock. Stock prices of technological-related companies, particularly companies with business operations primarily in China, have fluctuated widely in recent years, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price is volatile and has ranged from a per-share high of US$9.45 to a low of US$1.19 during the period from January 1, 2008 to May 29, 2009. On May 29, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was US$2.38 per share. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services and products could cause the market price of our common stock to change substantially. In addition, many factors that we cannot control affect our stock price, including the global financial market and the confidence of the investment community. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our common stock trades. There is no assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. There have been historical deficiencies with our internal controls, and there remain areas of our internal controls that require improvement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on its internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report containing management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operated, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. As of December 31, 2008, our company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because management has identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which are described in more detail in Item 15T “Controls and Procedures.” We plan to continue to take additional steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. and have engaged a consulting firm experienced in handling compliance with the requirements of SOX. However, if we are unable to implement solutions to deficiencies in our existing internal and disclosure controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Any failure on our part to maintain adequate internal controls may result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace and/or a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. We could also become subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions by regulators such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. We may also be required to incur greater than expected costs to improve our internal control processes. All of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect their market price. In September 2008, we issued to investors an aggregate of 498,338 shares of common stock, Series A Warrants to purchase up to an additional 249,170 shares of common stock and Series B Warrants to purchase up to an aggregate amount of 1,277,136 shares of common stock contingently upon incurrence of price reset protection and dilutive subsequent issuance. In April 2008, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, China Green Holdings, Ltd., issued a US$10.0 million convertible note to an investor. We guaranteed the obligations of China Green Holdings, Ltd, under the convertible note, which at the election of the holder thereof is exchangeable for shares of our common stock. We may require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions or other future developments, and we may need to obtain additional funds through issuance by our company or by one or more of our subsidiaries of new equity or debt. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or convertible debt securities in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock or convertible debt securities. 12 Table of Contents Rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law may be less than those of shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in existence in most United States jurisdictions. Thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain “fiduciary” responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in United States jurisdictions. In addition, in most United States jurisdictions, directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation and its shareholders, including a duty of care, pursuant to which directors must properly apprise themselves of all reasonably available information, and a duty of loyalty, pursuant to which they must protect the interests of the corporation and refrain from conduct that injures the corporation or its shareholders or that deprives the corporation or its shareholders of any profit or advantage. Many United States jurisdictions have enacted various statutory provisions which permit the monetary liability of directors to be eliminated or limited. Under British Virgin Islands law, liability of a corporate director to the corporation is basically limited to cases of willful malfeasance in the performance of his duties or to cases where the director has not acted honestly and in good faith and with a view to the best interests of the corporation. It is unknown whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, liabilities which are predicated upon the securities laws of the United States. As a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. securities laws, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we are exempt from compliance with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans (including those in which our officers or directors may participate), stock issuances that will result in a change in control, the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares or below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have partially complied with the foregoing rules and we may voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions in the future. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer for purposes of U.S. securities laws. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; 13 Table of Contents • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the provisions of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the provisions of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. 