ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, other reports to be filed by us with the SEC, press releases made by us and other public statements by our officers, oral and written, contain or will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including those relating to the possible or assumed future results of operations and financial condition. Because those statements are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Listed below are risks associated with an investment in our securities that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We compete with other third party providers primarily on the basis of the technological features and capabilities of our products and services, and we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new business if we do not keep pace with technological changes. The markets for our products and services are competitive, continually evolving and subject to technological change. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the markets we serve include the breadth and quality of system and software solution offerings, the stability of the information systems provider, the features and capabilities of the product and service offerings, and the potential for future product and service enhancements. Our success depends upon our ability to keep pace with technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new and enhanced software solutions and services that satisfy changing client requirements. If we do not keep pace with technological changes, we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Security problems with our software products or services could cause increased service costs and damage to our reputation. We have included security features in our products and processes that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of data, including confidential client or consumer data. Security for our products and processes is critical given the confidential nature of the information contained in our systems. Our software products, the systems on which the products are used, and our processes may not be impervious to intentional break-ins ("hacking") or other disruptive disclosures or problems, whether as a result of inadvertent third party action, employee action, malfeasance, or other. Hacking or other disruptive problems could result in the diversion of our development resources, damage to our reputation, increased service costs and impaired market acceptance of our products, any of which could result in higher expenses or lower revenues. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process large amounts of personally identifiable information. Our software products also enable our customers to store and process personal data. It is possible that our security controls over personal data, our training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Perceptions that our products and services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products and services. 7 Table of Contents Errors or fraud related to our business processes could cause increased expense for litigation and diversion of management attention. We administer claims and provide professional services for third parties. Errors or fraud could occur, for example, in the payment of settlement claims in a case we are administering for a customer. Errors or fraud related to the processing or payment of these claims or errors related to the delivery of professional services could result in the diversion of management resources, damage to our reputation, increased service costs or impaired market acceptance of our services, any of which could result in higher expenses and/or lower revenues. Additionally, these types of errors or fraud could result in lawsuits alleging damages. Defending these types of claims could result in increased expenses for litigation and claims settlement and a significant diversion of our management's attention. Interruptions or delays in service related at the data centers we utilize could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We provide certain of our services through computer hardware that is located in data centers operated by unrelated third parties. We do not control the operation of these facilities, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide, and they are subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. The occurrence of any of these events, a decision to close a facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in interruptions in certain of our services. In addition, the failure by our vendor to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems or services could reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their agreements with us and adversely affect our ability to secure business in the future. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Releases of new software products or upgrades to our existing software products may have undetected errors, which could cause litigation claims against us or damage to our reputation. All of our services utilize software solutions developed by us for our customers. We issue new releases of our software products to our customers periodically. Complex software products, such as those we offer, can contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. Any introduction of new software products or upgrade to existing software products has a risk of undetected errors. These undetected errors may be discovered only after a product has been installed and used either in our internal processing or by our customers. Likewise, the software products we acquire in business acquisitions have a risk of undetected errors. Any undetected errors, as well as any difficulties in installing and maintaining our software products or upgrade releases or difficulties training customers and their staffs on the utilization of new software products or upgrade releases, may result in a delay or loss of revenue, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, increased service costs, increased expense for litigation or claims settlement, or impaired market acceptance of our products. Our software solutions may not achieve our customer's desired objectives, which could cause loss of business and potential litigation claims against us or damage to our reputation. The software products and solutions we provide our customers are increasingly complex in response to the needs of our customers. While our products and services are designed to meet the needs of our customers, our software products may fail to achieve the customer's desired objectives, which could result in the loss of that customer, loss of future business, potential litigation claims against us and damage to our reputation. 8 Table of Contents We rely on third-party hardware and software, which could cause errors or failures of our software or services. We rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties for our service offerings. Any errors or defects in third party hardware or software could result in errors in our software or a failure of our service which could adversely affect our customer relationships and result in lower revenues and earnings. A substantial amount of revenue in our bankruptcy segment related to trustee deposits is collected through a single financial institution, and the termination of that marketing arrangement could cause uncertainty and adversely affect our future bankruptcy segment revenue and earnings. The application of Chapter 7 bankruptcy regulations discourages Chapter 7 trustees from incurring direct administrative costs for computer system expenses. As a result, we provide our products and services to these trustee customers at no direct charge, and these trustee customers agree to deposit the cash proceeds from liquidations of debtors' assets with a designated financial institution with which we have an arrangement. We have arrangements with several financial institutions under which these trustees deposit the liquidated assets at one of those financial institutions. Under these arrangements we collect monthly revenues from the financial institution based primarily upon a percentage of the total liquidated assets on deposit at that financial institution. These bankruptcy deposit-based fees are a considerable amount of our bankruptcy segment revenues. A substantial amount of our bankruptcy segment revenues related to trustee deposits are collected through our relationship with Bank of America. Either party may, with appropriate notice, wind down the arrangement over a period of three years, including the notice period. If either party were to terminate this arrangement, we could experience a decline in revenues and earnings as those deposits are transferred. Bankruptcy segment revenues related to trustee deposits from Bank of America comprised 7%, 14%, and 38% of our total revenue recognized for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Our pricing models for Chapter 7 trustee clients within the bankruptcy segment have a component of pricing tied to prevailing interest rates, and a significant decline in interest rates could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Under the Chapter 7 marketing arrangements we have with each depository financial institution, certain fees we earn for deposits placed with those financial institution could have, within certain limits, variability based on fluctuations in short-term interest rates. The decline in short-term interest rates during 2008 resulted in fees under those arrangements reaching the low end of the variable fee schedule. Fluctuations in short-term interest rates could affect the fees we earn for the Chapter 7 deposits in the future. We depend upon our key personnel and we may not be able to retain them or to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees in the future. Our future success may depend upon the continued service of our senior management and certain of our key technical personnel and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, and sales and marketing personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, President, or Chief Financial Officer. We maintain key-man life insurance policies on our Chief Executive Officer and our President. The loss of the services of any of these senior executives or other key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The integration of acquired businesses is time consuming, may distract our management from our other operations, and can be expensive, all of which could reduce or eliminate our expected earnings. We have acquired businesses in the past and we may consider opportunities in the future to acquire other companies, assets or product lines that complement or expand our business. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with our existing operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions to our operations. A difficult or unsuccessful integration of an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from companies or businesses we acquire include those associated with: •unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired business; •conforming standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with our operations; •increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; •difficulties in transferring processes and know-how; •difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns to the acquired business; and •adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. We continue to expand our business internationally, which subjects us to additional risks associated with these international operations. We have expanded our business internationally with offices in London, Brussels and Hong Kong, primarily related to our electronic discovery business. We could expand other businesses internationally and we could enter other world markets. It requires significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful global markets. In addition, new operations in geographies we may enter may not be immune from possible government monitoring or intrusion. Global operations are subject to additional inherent risks, including certain risks that are not present with our domestic operations, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include: •difficulties and costs in recruiting effective management for international operations; •foreign certification, licensing and regulatory requirements, which may be substantially more complex or burdensome than our domestic requirements; •unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; •risk associated with selecting or terminating partners for foreign expansions, including marketing agents, distributors or other strategic partners for particular markets; •changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; •reduced protection of confidential consumer information in some countries; and •different or additional functionality requirements for our software and services. 10 Table of Contents To the extent our revenues are paid in foreign currencies, and currency exchange rates become unfavorable, we may lose some of the economic value of the revenues in U.S. dollar terms. As we expand our international operations, more of our customers pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our revenues and profits. Our intellectual property is not protected through patents or formal copyright registration. Therefore, we do not have the full benefit of patent or copyright laws to prevent others from replicating our software. Our intellectual property rights are not protected through patents or formal copyright registration. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets or prevent others from independently developing substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or from otherwise gaining access to our trade secrets. In addition, foreign intellectual property laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringements. Litigation of this nature could result in substantial expense for us and diversion of management and other resources, which could result in a loss of revenue and profits. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plan, and could require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, certain customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our service to others, which could result in a loss of revenues and profits. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and diversion of management time and attention from operational activities. Compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, The NASDAQ Stock Market and FINRA, (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority) rules, are time consuming and expensive. We have spent substantial amounts of management time and have incurred substantial legal and accounting expense in the past complying with these federal securities laws. Complying with these laws and regulations also creates uncertainty for companies such as ours. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. 11 Table of Contents Future government legislation or changes in court rules could adversely affect one or more of our business segments. Our products and services are not directly regulated by the government. Each of our three reporting segments and the customers served by those businesses are, however, directly or indirectly affected by federal and state laws and regulations and court rules. For example, bankruptcy reform legislation, class action and tort reform legislation and amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure regarding discovery of "electronically stored information" have all affected our customers, and indirectly, our business segments. Future federal or state legislation or court rules, or court interpretations of those laws and rules, could adversely affect the businesses we serve and thus could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stockholders' equity. Goodwill is subject to an impairment assessment at least annually (or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. The carrying value of our goodwill was approximately $263.9 million as of December 31, 2008. Our assessment of goodwill for impairment could, in the future, result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stockholders' equity. The recent financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business and our customers, including the inability of our credit banks to fund draws on our revolving credit facility, our inability to increase or renew our current revolving credit facility, failure of our customers to pay us on a timely basis or at all, or other currently unforeseen consequences. If the global economy or the U.S. economy remain uncertain or weaken further, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. If they do, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results have fluctuated during the past and may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are increasingly difficult to forecast. Our business will continue to be affected by a number of factors, any one of which could substantially affect our results of operations for a particular fiscal quarter. Specifically, our quarterly results from operations can vary due to: •the initiation or termination of a large engagement; •the timing, size, cancellation or rescheduling of customer orders; •fluctuations in short-term interest rates or bankruptcy trustees' deposit balances; •unanticipated expenses related to software maintenance or customer service; and •unexpected legal or regulatory expenses. 12 Table of Contents It is possible that our future quarterly results from operations from time to time will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. This could cause a material decrease in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile even if our quarterly results do not fluctuate significantly. Even if we report stable or increased earnings, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. There are a number of factors, beyond earnings fluctuations, that can affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: •a decrease in market demand for our stock; •downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; •announcements of technological innovations or new products developed by us or our competitors; •legal proceedings; •the degree of customer acceptance of new products or enhancements offered by us; and •general market conditions and other economic factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and this is likely to continue. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. We presently do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, certain terms of our contingent convertible subordinated notes restrict our payment of dividends while the notes are outstanding, and certain provisions in our credit facility may restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. Subject to any financial covenants in current or future financing agreements that directly or indirectly restrict the payment of dividends, the payment of dividends is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future earnings, if any, our capital requirements, our financial condition and any other factors that the board of directors may consider. We currently intend to retain all earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business or for potential future debt repayment. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon its future appreciation. Our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. The use of our common stock to fund acquisitions or to refinance debt incurred for acquisitions could dilute existing shares. We have used our common stock to partly fund acquisitions and to refinance debt incurred in connection with acquisitions. During November 2007, we issued 5.0 million shares of common stock and used approximately $74.0 million of the net proceeds to pay debt outstanding under our credit facility. During November 2005, we issued approximately 1.8 million shares of common stock in connection with our nMatrix (now Epiq eDiscovery Solutions) acquisition. During June 2004, we issued $50.0 million of convertible notes, which are convertible into approximately 4.3 million shares of common stock based upon a conversion price of $11.67 per share, to refinance a portion of the purchase price for the Poorman-Douglas (now Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions) acquisition. 13 Table of Contents We may consider further opportunities to acquire companies, assets or product lines that complement or expand our business. We expect that future acquisitions, if any, could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares. If the consideration for an acquisition is paid in common stock, existing shareholders' investments could be diluted. Furthermore, we may decide to issue convertible debt or additional shares of common stock and use part or all of the proceeds to finance or refinance the costs of any future acquisitions. Our articles of incorporation and Missouri law contain provisions that could be used by us to discourage or prevent a takeover of our company. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to certain shareholders. For example, our articles of incorporation include "blank check" preferred stock provisions, which permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. In conjunction with the issuance of a series of preferred stock, the board is authorized to fix the rights of that series, including voting rights, liquidation preferences, conversion rights and redemption privileges. The board could issue a series of preferred stock to a friendly investor and use one or more of these features of the preferred stock to discourage or prevent a takeover of the company. Additionally, our articles of incorporation do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Cumulative voting, if available, would enable minority shareholders to elect one or more representatives to the board in certain circumstances, which could be used by third parties to facilitate a takeover of our company that was opposed by our board or management. In addition, the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, under which we are incorporated, provides that any merger involving the company must be approved by the holders of not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote on the merger. Presently, our only outstanding voting securities are our shares of common stock. Accordingly, shareholders with voting power over as little as one-third of our outstanding common stock could block a merger proposal, even if that merger proposal were supported by our board of directors or shareholders holding a majority of our then outstanding shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 