ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. We believe the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business The industries in which we operate are competitive. This competition may prevent us from raising prices at the same pace as our costs increase, making it difficult for us to maintain existing business and win new business. We operate in competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources than we do. Additionally, new competitors may enter our markets. We may be required to reduce prices if our competitors reduce prices, or as a result of any other downward pressure on prices for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on us. In electronic chemicals particularly, we compete with several international and North American companies. Our customers have regularly requested price decreases and maintaining or raising prices has been difficult over the past several years and will likely continue to be so in the near future. Competition in electronic chemicals is based on a number of factors, including price, freight economics, product quality and technical support. If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may experience a reduced demand for our wood treating chemicals if the demand for the wood products on which those chemicals are used decreases, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our wood treating chemicals, penta and creosote, which represented 39% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2011, are sold into mature markets. The principal consumers of our wood treating chemicals are industrial wood treating companies who use our products to protect wood utility poles and railroad crossties from insect damage and decay. Although these products are sold into relatively stable markets, the demand for treated wood generally increases or decreases with the financial strength and maintenance budgets of electric utilities and railroads. A significant decline in either utility pole or wood crosstie sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The industries that we compete in are subject to economic downturns. An economic downturn in the electronic industry as a whole or other events (e.g., labor disruptions) resulting in significantly reduced production at the manufacturing plants of our customers, could have a material adverse impact on the results of our electronic chemicals segment. Similarly, an economic downturn affecting utilities or major railroads could have a material adverse effect on demand for our wood treating chemicals, and economic distress affecting livestock producers could have a material adverse effect on our animal health segment. A significant portion of our revenue and operating income from our electronic chemicals and creosote segments are concentrated in a small number of customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income in our electronic chemicals and creosote segments from sales of products to a small number of customers. As a result, the loss of a significant customer, or a reduction of demand from one of those customers, could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. If we are unable to identify, fund and execute new acquisitions, we will not be able to execute a key element of our business strategy. Our strategy is to grow primarily by acquiring additional businesses and product lines. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses and product lines, or successfully integrate any acquired business or product line without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Financing for acquisitions may not be available, or may be available only at a cost or on terms and conditions that are unacceptable to us. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks or effects, including diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, impairment of acquired intangible assets and other one-time or ongoing acquisition-related expenses. Some or all of these special risks or effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results. In addition, we cannot assure you that acquired businesses or product lines, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings. The consideration we pay in connection with an acquisition also may affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash or obtain debt or equity financing. To the extent that we issue shares of our capital stock or other rights to purchase shares of our common stock as consideration for an acquisition or in connection with the financing of an acquisition, including options or other rights, our existing common shareholders may be diluted, and our earnings per share may decrease. We may experience increased costs and production delays if suppliers fail to deliver materials or if prices increase for raw materials and other goods and services that we purchase from third parties. We purchase raw materials for our electronic chemicals business from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we believe that the raw materials we require in our electronic chemicals business will be available in sufficient supply on a competitive basis for the foreseeable future, continued increases in the cost of raw materials, including energy and other inputs used to make our products, could affect future sales volumes, prices and margins for our products. If a supplier should cease to deliver goods or services to us, we would in most cases find other sources. However, such a disruption could result in added cost and manufacturing delays. In addition, political instability, war, terrorism and other disruptions to international transit routes could adversely impact our ability to obtain key raw materials in a timely fashion, or at all. Increases in the price of our primary raw materials for our wood treating chemicals business may decrease our profitability and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Chlorine is a key component in the manufacture of penta. The price we pay for chlorine has often been at very high levels, and although we have increased prices, those increases have not always been sufficient to maintain the previous profitability of that product. High energy prices have increased the competition for creosote, since it can be burned as a fuel in certain markets and can be used as feed stock in the carbon black market. Creosote is produced by our suppliers from the distillation of coal tar. The prices we pay for raw materials in our wood treating chemicals business have increased significantly in the last several years, and we have not always been able to pass those increases through to our customers fully and timely. In the future, we may be unable to pass on increases in our raw material costs, and raw material price increases may erode the profitability of our products by reducing our gross profit. Price increases for raw materials may also increase our working capital needs, which could adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that raw material cost increases in our wood treating chemicals business would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for co-solvent, creosote and several of our animal health pesticides, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the co-solvent needed to produce the liquid formulation of our penta product. These suppliers produce co-solvent as a byproduct of a process intended to manufacture a higher value product. Changes in that process or in market conditions affecting the higher value product could materially affect the availability or price of co-solvent. Our creosote is supplied primarily by two suppliers. There are no other significant suppliers of creosote for the North American market. We have one supplier of the tetrachlorvinphos active ingredient for our Rabon and Ravap products, and only one supplier for each of two other active ingredients in our animal health pesticides, dichlorvos and endosulfan. If we were to lose any of these suppliers, we might have difficulty securing a replacement supplier at reasonable cost, and no assurance can be given that such loss would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could be adversely affected by high petroleum prices. The profitability of our business depends to a degree upon the price of petroleum products, both as a component of transportation costs for delivery of products to our customers and as a raw material used to make our products, including penta solutions. High petroleum prices also affect the businesses of our customers. In particular, the purchasers of our animal health products have experienced increased feed costs for their livestock and increased fuel costs, each of which is impacted by high petroleum prices. Our penta customers dissolve our product in petroleum to make a treating solution for utility poles. Unfavorable changes in petroleum prices or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce purchases of our products, and impose practical limits on our pricing. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins, and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We are unable to predict what the price of crude oil and petroleum-based products will be in the future. We may be unable to pass along to our customers the increased costs that result from higher petroleum prices. Therefore, high petroleum prices could have a material adverse impact on our business and profitability. We will continue to pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures, and any such transaction could result in operating or management problems that adversely affect operating results. We remain subject to the ongoing risks of successfully managing the acquisitions and joint ventures that are completed. The acquisitions we make expose us to the risk of unsuccessfully integrating that acquisition. An integration effort impacts various areas of our business, including our management, production facilities, information systems, accounting and financial reporting, and customer service. Disruption to any of these areas could materially harm our financial condition or results of operations. We expect to continue to pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures, a pursuit which could consume substantial time and resources. The successful implementation of our operating strategy in current and future acquisitions and joint ventures may require substantial attention from our management team, which could divert management attention from existing businesses. The businesses acquired, or the joint ventures entered into, may not generate the cash flow and earnings, or yield the other benefits anticipated at the time of their acquisition or formation. The risks inherent in any such strategy could have an adverse impact on our results of operation or financial condition. Our ability to make payments on our debt will be contingent on our future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors that are outside of our control. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on our debt is contingent on our future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important negative consequences, including the following: • we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; 9 Table of Contents • a significant portion of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in the segments in which we operate or a downturn in the economy in general; • we may be limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and the segments in which we operate; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • we may be limited in our ability to react to unforeseen increases in certain costs and obligations arising in our businesses, including environmental liabilities; • we may determine it to be necessary to dispose of certain assets or one or more of our businesses to reduce our debt; and • our ability to borrow additional funds may be limited. If we are unable to make scheduled debt payments or comply with the other provisions of our debt instruments, our lenders may be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owed to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. Restrictions in our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions. Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants which affect our ability to take certain actions and restrict our ability to incur additional debt. These include covenants that prohibit certain acquisitions that are not approved by our lenders. In addition, our debt agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with them. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that these restrictive covenants impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our other debt agreements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If our products are not re-registered by the EPA or are re-registered subject to new restrictions, our ability to sell our products may be curtailed or significantly limited. Our creosote, penta and many of our animal health pesticide registrations are under continuous review by the EPA under FIFRA. We have submitted and will submit a wide range of scientific data to support our U.S. registrations. To satisfy the registration review, we are required to demonstrate, among other things, that our products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. In September 2008, EPA announced that it had determined that creosote and penta were eligible for re-registration, but EPA proposed new restrictions on the use of those products that will require some of our customers to incur substantial additional costs and to revise certain operating procedures. EPA also required that creosote and penta registrants provide additional research and testing data respecting certain potential risks to human health or the environment as a further condition to continued re-registration. EPA is also reviewing the risk profile of penta under its Integrated Risk Information System database. That review will establish a toxicological profile that may prompt EPA to reconsider its risk assessment. EPA has also requested more testing in its registration review of certain animal health pesticides, including tetrachlorvinphos (used in our Rabon and Ravap products) and permethrin. We cannot assure you as to when or if the EPA will issue a final decision concluding that the conditions of re-registration for our creosote and penta products have been satisfied, or concluding the registration review of our animal health pesticides. Even if our products are re-registered by the EPA, we cannot assure you that our products will not be subject to further data submission requirements, or subject to use or labeling restrictions, that have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The failure of our current or future-acquired products to be re-registered or to satisfy the registration review by the EPA, or the imposition of new use, labeling or other restrictions in connection with re-registration could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in industry requirements or by supply-chain driven pressures to shift to environmentally preferable alternatives. Changes in regulatory, legislative and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, may shift current customers away from products using penta, creosote or certain of our other products and toward alternative products that are believed to have fewer environmental effects. The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta, creosote and others included in certain of our products. In fiscal year 2010, for example, we agreed with EPA to voluntarily cancel and cease sales of our endosulfan product registration (Avenger ear tags) in fiscal year 2016. Our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory, legislative, and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Further, we may not be able to comply with changed or new regulatory or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that the EPA, foreign and state regulators and local governments will not restrict the uses of penta, creosote or certain of our other products or ban the use of one or more of these products, or that the companies who use our products may decide to reduce significantly or cease the use of our products voluntarily. As a result, our products may become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. We may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties that may be acquired or obtain protection from sellers against them. The acquisition of properties requires assessment of a number of factors, including physical condition and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. The assessments made result from a due diligence review of the subject properties, but such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems. We may not be able to obtain comprehensive contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created or that were created by any predecessor of the seller. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical or environmental condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with expectations. We are dependent upon many critical systems and processes, many of which are dependent upon hardware that is concentrated in a limited number of locations. If a catastrophe were to occur at one or more of those locations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The business is dependent on certain critical systems, which support various aspects of our operations, from our computer network to our billing and customer service systems. The hardware supporting a large number of such systems is housed in a small number of locations. If one or more of these locations were to be subject to fire, natural disaster, terrorism, power loss, or other catastrophe, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe that we maintain reasonable disaster recovery programs, there can be no assurance that, despite these efforts, any disaster recovery, security and service continuity protection measures it may have or may take in the future will be sufficient. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive technological problems could also adversely affect our operations. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our computer systems. Weather may impact adversely our ability to conduct business. Much of the creosote we sell is supplied from Europe, and we import that product through a terminal in New Orleans, Louisiana. Our penta facility in Matamoros, Mexico, and several suppliers of raw materials for our electronic chemicals business are located on or near the Gulf of Mexico. Thus, we are dependent on terminals and facilities located in coastal areas for a substantial portion of the creosote we use, the penta we make and for certain of the raw materials we use for our electronic chemicals products. These terminals and facilities are vulnerable to hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions that have the potential to cause substantial damage and to interrupt operations. For example, in 2005 Hurricane Katrina closed our terminal in New Orleans, Louisiana temporarily and forced us to locate an interim substitute terminal. We cannot assure you that adverse weather conditions will not affect our importation of creosote or the availability of penta and certain other raw materials in the future, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The distribution and sale of our products is subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation. Our products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling of our products. The labeling requirements restrict the use and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable which would adversely affect our sales and profitability. All of our wood treating and animal health pesticides are subject to the EPA’s registration and re-registration requirements, and are conditionally registered in accordance with FIFRA. Those registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. All states where our products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products. We have and are currently furnishing certain required data relative to our products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement significantly increases our operating expenses, and we expect those expenses will continue in the future. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, we cannot determine with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities. While Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures which must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the EPA, there can be no assurance that the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future. We can provide no assurance that our resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance or that the cost of such compliance will not adversely affect our profitability. The Registration Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”) legislation may affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain products in the European Union. REACH, which was effective on June 1, 2007, requires chemical manufacturers and importers in the European Union to prove safety of their products. As a result, we were required to pre-register certain products and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern are subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions on certain uses of products or even prohibitions on the manufacture or importation of products. The full registration requirements of REACH will be phased in over the next ten years. We will incur additional expense to cause the registration of our products under these regulations. REACH may also affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain products in the European Union. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Like other companies involved in environmentally sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive and stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning, among other things: • the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes; • the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; • the discharge of effluents into waterways; • the emission of substances into the air; and • other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. The EPA and other federal and state agencies, as well as comparable agencies in Mexico, Italy and in other countries where we sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. These environmental laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, requires the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution resulting from our operations. We expend substantial funds to minimize the discharge of hazardous materials in the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us, and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production, or require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur significant expenses, including remediation costs. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws. Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities may seek fines and penalties, as well as injunctive relief, for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on us for cleaning up the damage resulting from a release of pesticides, hazardous materials or other chemicals into the environment. 12 Table of Contents Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to potential liabilities. Our manufacturing and distribution of chemical products involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Our operations, therefore, are subject to various associated risks, including chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, fires, mechanical failure, storage facility leaks and similar events. Our suppliers are subject to similar risks which may adversely impact the availability of raw materials. While we adapt our manufacturing and distribution processes to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials, including injury of our employees, individuals who handle our products or goods treated with our products, or others who claim to have been exposed to our products, nor can we completely eliminate the unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations at our facilities due to such events. We may be held liable for significant damages or fines in the event of contamination or injury, and such assessed damages or fines could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. Our business success depends significantly on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities. Our revenues depend significantly on the continued operation of our manufacturing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard operation or performance of equipment, power outages, explosions, fires, earthquakes, natural disasters and other unscheduled downtime. The occurrence of material operational problems or the loss or shutdown of our facilities over an extended period of time due to these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. Our business is subject to many operational risks for which we may not be adequately insured. We cannot assure you that we will not incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance policies. From time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the chemical industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have been unavailable. In addition, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain existing coverage or that our insurance premiums will not increase substantially. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. We do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Also, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental incidences is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such cases. Our business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects. In general, the chemical industry is cyclical and demand for many of our animal health products is seasonal. Many of our products are used in industries that are cyclical in nature. Changes affecting these industries can adversely affect our revenues and margins. Seasonal usage of our chemical products follows varying agricultural seasonal patterns, weather conditions and weather-related pressure from pests, as well as customer marketing programs and requirements. Weather patterns can have an impact on our sales, particularly sales of our animal health chemicals. There can be no assurance that we will adequately address any adverse seasonal effects. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team, including J. Neal Butler, our President and Chief Executive Officer, John V. Sobchak, our Chief Financial Officer, Roger C. Jackson, our General Counsel, and Ernest C. Kremling, our Vice President of Operations. While we have succession plans for these key positions, the loss of any member of our senior management team or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully negotiate with the labor unions representing our employees, we may experience a material work stoppage. About half of our full-time employees who work at our facilities in Matamoros, Mexico, and Hollister, California, and about a quarter of those who work in Milan, Italy are represented under a labor agreement. In Mexico and Italy, the agreement is for one year and at Hollister, California it expires in April 2012. We cannot assure you that a new agreement will be reached at the end of each period without union action, or that a new agreement will be reached on terms satisfactory to us. An extended work stoppage, slowdown or other action by our employees could significantly disrupt our business. Future labor contracts may be on terms that result in higher labor costs to us, which also could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to possible risk of terrorist attacks and, in Mexico, to, narcotics gang disruption, each of which could adversely affect our business. Since September 11, 2001, there have been increasing concerns that chemical manufacturing facilities and railcars carrying hazardous chemicals may be at an increased risk of future terrorist attacks. Federal, state and local governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business could be adversely impacted if a terrorist incident were to occur at any chemical facility or while a railcar or tank truck was transporting chemicals. Additionally, our penta manufacturing facility is located in Matamoros, Mexico, an area where there has been significant violent crime involving narcotics gang warfare. Our penta operations could be disrupted or otherwise affected by narcotics gang activities in the Mexico border area where our facility is located. We are not insured against terrorist or narcotics gang attacks, and there can be no assurance that losses that could result from an attack on our facilities or personnel, railcars or tank trucks would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic conditions. We have facilities in the United States, Mexico, and Italy, and generate a significant portion of our sales in foreign countries. Like other companies with foreign operations and sales, we are exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign investments in Mexico and Italy and, to a lesser extent, changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 