D. Risk Factors Investment in developmental stage ventures such as Anooraq is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. - 13 - The Company faces risks in executing its business plan and achieving revenues. The following risks are material risks that the Company faces. The Company also faces the risks identified elsewhere in this Annual Report. If any of these risks occur, the Company's business and its operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and the Company may not be able to continue business operations as a going concern. Exploration and Development The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Although the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish ore reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs planned by Anooraq and its joint venture partners will result in a profitable commercial mining operation, (see Item 30 – “Joint Venture Risks”). Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is dependent upon a number of factors. These include deposit attributes such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current and future metal prices (which can be cyclical), and government regulations, including those relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and necessary supplies and environmental protection. The complete effect of these factors, either alone or in combination, cannot be entirely predicted, and their impact may result in Anooraq not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The figures for mineral resources presented herein are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. No Ore All of the Company’s projects are in the exploration as opposed to the development stage and have no known body of economic mineralization. The known mineralization at these projects has not been determined to be commercially minerable, economic ore. Although the Company believes that exploration data available is encouraging, particularly in respect to the Platreef and Ga-Phasha properties, there can be no assurance that commercially mineable ore bodies exist. There is no certainty that any expenditure made in the exploration of the Company's mineral properties will result in discoveries of commercially recoverable quantities of ore. Such assurance will require completion of final comprehensive feasibility studies and, possibly, further associated exploration and other work to determine if a potential mine at any of these projects is likely to be economic. In order to carry out exploration and development programs of any economic ore body and place it into commercial production, the Company must raise substantial additional funding. Economic Risk The likelihood of the future profitability of Anooraq's operations may be significantly affected by changes in the market price of the metals it mines or for which it explores. The prices of PGM are volatile, and - 14 - are affected by numerous factors beyond Anooraq's control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, the world supply of PGM and the volatility of exchange rates can all cause fluctuations in these prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political developments. The prices of PGM have fluctuated in recent years, and future significant price declines could cause commercial production to be uneconomic and may have a material adverse effect on Anooraq's business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional Funding Requirements The further development and exploration of the various mineral properties in which Anooraq holds interests is dependent upon its ability to obtain financing through any or all of the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. The Company’s cash resources at June 30, 2006 are not sufficient for its present needs, specifically to continue administrative and exploration operations at current levels through the end of the year 2006. There is no assurance that Anooraq will be successful in obtaining the required financing. The Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm on Anooraq’s 2005 consolidated financial statements which report is included herein includes an explanatory paragraph that describes conditions that exists that cause substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. Mining Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Anooraq's operations are subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of minerals. These include unusual and unexpected geological formations, rock falls, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. Although adequate precautions to minimize risk will be taken, milling operations are subject to hazards such as equipment failure or failure of retaining dams which may result in environmental pollution and consequent liability which will have a material adverse effect on Anooraq's business and results of operation and financial condition. Government Regulation The exploration and mining activities of Anooraq are subject to various South African national, provincial and local laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labour standards and occupational health, mine safety, toxic substance and other matters. Exploration activities and mining are also subject to various national, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws mandate, among other things, the maintenance of certain air and water quality standards, and land reclamation. These laws also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Although Anooraq's activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, to the best of its knowledge and belief no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail production or development. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of exploration, mining and milling or more stringent implementation thereof could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq's business, results of operation and financial condition. In March 2003, the Government of South Africa released the Royalty Bill outlining the state's policies with regard to the payment of royalties by mining companies. The Royalty Bill proposes that companies - 15 - producing PGM pay a royalty of 4% from the sales of those metals. The royalty would be payable on gross revenue. If enacted, the Royalty Bill may reduce the viability of projects undertaken by the Company. The Royalty Bill is presently under discussion and comment. In his budget speech on February 18, 2004, the South African Minister of Finance announced that the implementation of the Royalty Bill, even once finalized, will not occur until 2009. The mining industry in South Africa, where the Company's projects are located, is subject to extensive regulation. The regulatory environment is developing, lacks clarity in a number of areas and is subject to interpretation, review and amendment as the mining industry is further developed and liberalized. In addition, the regulatory process entails a public comment process, which makes the outcome of legislation and regulary controls uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatory process. A number of significant matters have not been finalized, including the Royalty Bill as well as legislation dealing with beneficiation. Anooraq cannot predict the outcome or timing of any amendments or modifications to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release of new regulations or their impact on its business. South African Government Empowerment Initiatives In order to address inequalities to HDP engendered by South Africa’s former apartheid system, the South African Government has initiated certain government empowerment initiatives. In October 2002, the South African Government enacted the Mineral Development Act that deals with the state's policy towards the future of ownership of minerals rights and the procedures for conducting mining transactions in South Africa. The Mineral Development Act is a statute with wide-ranging objectives, including sustainable development and the promotion of equitable access to South Africa’s mineral wealth by the inclusion of HDP into the industry. The Mineral Development Act came into effect in May 2004. The South African Government has stated that, under the Mineral Development Act, it will be issuing permits and licenses for prospecting and mining rights to applicants using a "scorecard" approach. Applicants will need to demonstrate their eligibility for consideration based upon the number of credits accumulated in terms of quantifiable ownership transformation criteria, such as employment equity and human resource development. Future amendments to, and interpretations of, the economic empowerment initiatives by the South African Government and the South African courts could adversely affect the business of Anooraq and its results of operations and its financial condition. Joint Venture Risks Anooraq holds the bulk of its assets in its wholly owned subsidiary, Plateau, in joint ventures. Plateau's interests in these projects are subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on Plateau's profitability or the viability of its interests held through joint ventures, which could have a material adverse impact on Anooraq's future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition: (i) disagreement with joint venture partners on how to proceed with exploration programs and how to develop and operate mines efficiently; (ii) inability of joint venture partners to meet their obligations to the joint venture or third parties; and (iii) litigation between joint venture partners regarding joint venture matters. See Item 4D – "Further Particulars of Anooraq's Properties – The Platreef Project – Location and Property Description - Rietfontein Block" for a discussion of a current dispute with a joint venture partner. - 16 - Title Matters While Anooraq has no reason to believe that the existence and extent of any of its properties is in doubt, title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. The mineral properties may be subject to previous unregistered agreements or transfers, and title may be affected by undetected defects or changes in mineral tenure laws. The Company's mineral interests consist of mineral claims, which have not been surveyed, and therefore, the precise area and location of such claims or rights may be in doubt. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including the failure to pay taxes or to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the mineral rights are held by Anooraq, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and its financial condition. Insurance and Uninsured Risks Anooraq's exploration operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failures, cave-ins, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to Anooraq's properties or the properties of others, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although Anooraq maintains insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as it considers is reasonable, its insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with a mining company's operations. Anooraq may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to Anooraq or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. Anooraq might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which may not be insured against or which Anooraq may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause Anooraq to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon its financial performance and results of operations. Political Risk Substantially all of the assets of Anooraq are located in a jurisdiction outside of Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in Canada to enforce judgments obtained against Anooraq in Canada. South Africa has recently undergone major constitutional changes to effect majority rule, and also to effect mineral title. Accordingly, many laws may be considered relatively new, resulting in risks such as possible misinterpretation of new laws, modification of mining or exploration rights, operating restrictions, increased taxes, environmental regulation, mine safety and other risks arising out of a new sovereignty over mining, any or all of which could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq. Anooraq's operations may also be affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, terrorism, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates and inflation. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in South Africa may adversely affect Anooraq's operations or likelihood of future profitability. Operations may be affected in - 17 - varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The political situation in South Africa introduces a certain degree of risk with respect to Anooraq's activities. The Government of South Africa exercises control over such matters as exploration and mining licensing, permitting, exporting and taxation, which may adversely impact on Anooraq's ability to carry out exploration, development and mining activities. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements or in the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with existing or other interests. Competition The mineral exploration and mining business is competitive in all of its phases. Anooraq competes with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than Anooraq, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Anooraq's ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on its ability to develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration. There is no assurance that Anooraq will continue to be able to compete successfully with its competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. Environmental Risks Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There can be no assurance that future changes to environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Anooraq's operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which Anooraq holds interests which are unknown to Anooraq at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Furthermore, compliance with environmental reclamation, closure and other requirements may involve significant costs and other liabilities. In particular, Anooraq's operations and exploration activities are subject to South African national and provincial laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. Dependence on Key Personnel Anooraq is dependent on a relatively small number of key employees and contractors, the loss of any of whom could have an adverse effect on Anooraq. The high prevalence of HIV/AIDS in southern Africa could impact negatively on the pool of human resources available to the Company. Exchange Rate Fluctuations The Company conducts operations in currencies other than Canadian dollars. Of particular significance is that operations in South Africa are almost entirely paid for in South African rand, which until recently has shown strength against most major world currencies, including the Canadian dollar and the United States dollar. The strengthening in the South African rand, if it continues, will negatively impact the potential profitability of the Company's mining operations. - 18 - The market prices of PGM are typically denominated in United States dollars and, accordingly, the Company's revenues, if any, will be denominated and received in United States dollars. In contrast, most expenses are and will be payable in the local currency in the jurisdiction where the applicable property is located. As a result, fluctuations in the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar and against each of the local currencies of the jurisdictions where the Company's properties are located could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results, which are denominated and reported in Canadian dollars. Foreign Subsidiaries Anooraq conducts operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, and substantially all of its assets are held in such entities. Accordingly, any limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between the parent corporation and such entities, or among such entities, could restrict Anooraq's ability to fund its operations efficiently. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations may exist in the future, could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq's valuation and stock price. Anooraq Has No History of Earnings and No Foreseeable Earnings Anooraq has a long history of losses and there can be no assurance that Anooraq will ever be profitable. Anooraq has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation, and does not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of Anooraq’s board of directors after taking into account many factors including Anooraq’s operating results, financial conditions and anticipated cash needs. Anooraq anticipates that it will retain future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of its business. Going Concern Assumption Anooraq’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis that Anooraq will continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2005, Anooraq had working capital of approximately $4.8 million, which may not be sufficient to meet its planned business objectives. Management recognizes that Anooraq may need to generate additional financial resources in order to meet its planned business objectives. There can be no assurances that Anooraq will continue to obtain additional financial resources and/or achieve profitability or positive cash flows. If Anooraq is unable to obtain adequate additional financing, Anooraq will be required to curtail operations and exploration activities. Furthermore, failure to continue as a going concern would require that Anooraq's assets and liabilities be restated on a liquidation basis which would differ significantly from the going concern basis. The Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm on Anooraq’s 2005 consolidated financial statements which report is included herein includes an explanatory paragraph that describes conditions that exists that cause substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. The Company’s cash resources at June 30, 2006 are not sufficient for its present needs, specifically to continue administrative and exploration operations at current levels through the end of the year 2006. The Company anticipates that it may effect equity or debt financing (or a combination thereof) to raise necessary funds. Any issuance of additional shares of the Company may have a depressing effect on the market for the Company’s shares. - 19 - Anooraq’s Share Price is Volatile The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource issuer like Anooraq, is affected by many variables not directly related to the exploration success of Anooraq. These include the market for junior resource stocks, the strength of the overall economy, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares suggests Anooraq’s shares will continue to be volatile. Penny Stock Classification Could Affect the Marketability of the Company's Common Stock and Shareholders Could Find It Difficult to Sell Their Stock The Company's stock may be subject to "penny stock" rules as defined in Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 rule 3a51-1. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules which regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than U.S. $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASD system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The Company’s common shares may be subject to these penny stock rules, which could have cost implications. Transaction costs associated with purchases and sales of penny stocks are likely to be higher than those for other securities. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. Further, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company’s common shares in the United States and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Certain of Anooraq’s Directors and Officers Serve as Directors and Officers of Other Companies Some of the directors and officers of Anooraq serve as officers and/or directors of other resource exploration companies and are engaged in, and will continue to be engaged in, the search for additional resource opportunities on their own behalf and on behalf of other companies, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with Anooraq. Such potential conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of British Columbia corporate and common law. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors’ duties to Anooraq and their duties to the other companies on whose boards they serve, the directors and officers of Anooraq expect that participation in exploration prospects offered to the directors will be allocated between the various companies that they serve on the basis of prudent business judgment and the relative financial abilities and needs of the companies to participate. - 20 - Likely Passive Foreign Investor Company (“PFIC”) Status Has Possible Adverse Tax Consequences for U.S. Investors Potential investors who are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that Anooraq expects to be a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for the current fiscal year, and may also have been a PFIC in prior years and may also be a PFIC in subsequent years. If Anooraq is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. taxpayer's holding period, then such U.S. taxpayer generally will be required to treat any so-called "excess distribution" received on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer makes a qualified electing fund ("QEF") election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the shares of Anooraq. In certain circumstances, the sum of the tax and the interest charge may exceed the amount of the excess distribution received, or the amount of proceeds of disposition realized, by the taxpayer. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of Anooraq's net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which Anooraq is a PFIC, whether or not Anooraq distributes any amounts to its shareholders. A U.S. taxpayer who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer's tax basis therein. U.S. taxpayers are advised to seek the counsel of their professional tax advisors. Significant Potential Equity Dilution At June 30, 2006, there were 4,568,200 share purchase options of Anooraq outstanding, of which none were in-the-money. As a consequence of the passage of time since the date of their original sale and issuance, no options or warrants of Anooraq remain subject to any hold period restrictions in Canada or the United States as of June 30, 2006. The unrestricted resale of outstanding shares from the exercise of dilutive securities may have a depressing effect on the market for the Company's shares. Dilutive securities represent approximately 3% of Anooraq's issued shares as of June 30, 2006. - 21 - 