ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in the Company’s securities should consider the following factors before trading in the Company’s securities: 7 Index Risks Affecting our Business: Our earnings could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue our growth. The Company has experienced significant growth, and our future business strategy is to continue to expand. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, successfully attract core deposits, and identify loan and investment opportunities as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. Our future profitability depends upon our ability to manage our growth. The Company expects to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and correspondingly in the number of our employees and customers. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. This may be particularly critical as we expand out of our traditional Sussex County, New Jersey market into New York and Pennsylvania. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. Our ability to afford and adapt to changes in technology will affect our future profitability. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and have more experience in managing technological change. Adoption of rapid technological changes by the banking industry or the bank's customers could put the bank at a competitive disadvantage if we do not have the capital or personnel necessary to implement such changes. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2006, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $5.0 million, or 15% of our capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers (without participation by other lenders) is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers. Market conditions may adversely affect our fee based insurance business. The revenues of our fee based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by commercial real estate. Any downturn in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate. Loans secured by commercial real estate account for 53.1% of our portfolio, and construction and land development loans account for another 11.5% of our loans. Majority of these properties are located in northwest New Jersey. Any sustained and material downturn in the commercial real estate market in northwest New Jersey could impair the value of our collateral and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the federal regulatory agencies supervising our operations have adopted policies requiring institutions with substantial portfolios of commercial real estate loans to hold higher levels of capital. Although the Company is not currently subject to these requirements, it could become subject to them if it continues to increase its proportion of commercial real estate loans. Any requirement that the Company hold additional capital could restrict the Company’s growth and negatively affect its profitability. Higher interest rates and a slowing real estate market have caused our non-performing assets to increase. 8 Index Continuation of these trends could adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of our loans (65.7% of the portfolio) carry variable rates of interest which reset periodically. As these loans have reset to current higher rates of interest, it has negatively affected the cash flow of some of our borrowers. In addition, the slowing real estate market has made it more difficult for borrowers to lease or sell properties. As a result of these two trends, our non-performing assets have increased from $1.4 million at year end 2005 to $2.7 million at year end 2006. If these trends continue, our non-performing assets may continue to increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Affecting the Banking Industry: Our operations are subject to extensive regulation. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision that are intended primarily to protect depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than investors. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect the Company and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. The Company can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities, and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and not for the purpose of protecting shareholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The banking industry within the New Jersey-New York metropolitan area is highly competitive. Although we believe that we have been and will continue to be able to compete effectively with our competition due to our experienced management and personalized service, if we are wrong, our ability to grow and operate profitably may be negatively affected. The bank's principal market area is served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. We also face competition from other companies that provide financial services, including consumer loan companies, credit unions, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, internet banks and private lenders. In addition, in November of 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (the "GLB Act") was passed into law. Among other things, the GLB Act permits insurance companies and securities firms to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing the competition we face. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources to expend on advertising and marketing than we do, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal on our belief that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve individuals and small businesses in our principal market area and on our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as "home town" institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The Company may not be able to effectively manage changes in interest rates that affect what we charge as interest on our earning assets and the expense we must pay on interest-bearing liabilities, which may significantly reduce our earnings. In addition, there are costs associated with our risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurances of our ability to continue to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest earned on our earning assets and the interest paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. 9 Index If the bank experiences greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income and our ability to fund our growth strategy. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking. If we experience greater nonpayment levels than anticipated, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operation. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss reserve. A reduction in the loan loss reserve will be restored by an increase in our provision for loan losses and will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and federal banking regulation. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders largely depends on our receipt of dividends from Sussex Bank. The amount of dividends that Sussex Bank may pay to us is limited by federal laws and regulations. We also may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 