ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are dependent on the performance of the affiliated practices for our net revenue Our net revenue depends primarily on revenue generated by the affiliated practices. We do not employ dentists or control the clinical decisions of the affiliated practices. There can be no assurance that the affiliated practices will maintain successful operations or that any of the key members of a particular affiliated practice will continue practicing with that practice. Availability of dentists, hygienists or assistants could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent permitted by state law, each affiliated practice has entered into non-competition agreements and other restrictive covenants with dentists under their employ. There can be no assurance that these restrictive covenants will remain in effect in all cases, are or will be sufficient to protect the interests of the affiliated practices, or that a court will enforce such agreements. Any material loss of revenue by an affiliated practice, whether due to the loss of existing dentists or the inability to recruit new ones, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the service agreements we have entered into with each of the affiliated practices for substantially all of our revenue. Revenue generated from our service agreements with PDG, P.A., the affiliated dental practice at Park Dental, and with Wisconsin Dental Group, S.C., the affiliated practice at Forward Dental, represent 31% and 13%, respectively of our consolidated net revenue. The termination of these service agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any material loss in revenue by one or more affiliated practices would have a material adverse effect on their ability to reimburse us for expenses and to pay our service fees. The failure to receive such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a breach of a service agreement by an affiliated practice, 14 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that the remedies available to us under our service agreements would be enforceable or adequate to compensate us for damages as a result of the breach. The outcome of pending litigation could adversely affect us Disruption or termination of the service agreement at Park Dental could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As described in Item 3, PDG, P.A., has filed a lawsuit seeking to void or reform the service agreement related to the Park Dental operations (the “PDG Litigation”). For the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues generated from our service agreement at Park Dental represented 31% of our consolidated revenues. In the PDG Litigation, PDG P.A., alleges, among other things, that the Company’s subsidiary is engaged in the unlawful practice of dentistry, and seeks to have the Service Agreement declared void or voidable, or to have the Service Agreement reformed by the court. PDG also seeks monetary damages and the return of the name “Park Dental’ to PDG P.A. If the court were to determine that the Service Agreement violates the law, the court could reform the contract to eliminate any violating provisions, void the contract, or order other equitable remedies as the court decides appropriate. The Company cannot determine how the court will rule with respect to claims made in the PDG Litigation. In addition, we expect to incur ongoing expenses in connection with the PDG Litigation. Our net revenue may be adversely affected by third-party payor cost containment efforts and capitation arrangements A significant portion of the payments for dental care that is received by the affiliated practices is paid or reimbursed under insurance programs with third-party payors. Third-party payors are continually negotiating the fees charged for dental care, with a goal of containing reimbursement and utilization rates. Loss of revenue by the affiliated practices caused by third-party payor cost containment efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some third-party payor contracts are capitated arrangements. Under such contracts, the affiliated practice receives a monthly payment based on the number of members for which they provide care and generally receives a co-payment from the patient at the time care is provided. Such payment methods shift a portion of the risk of providing care from the third-party payors to the affiliated practice. To the extent that patients covered by such contracts require more frequent or extensive care than is anticipated, there may be a shortfall between the capitated payments received by the affiliated practice and the costs incurred to provide such care. There can be no assurance that the affiliated practices will be able to negotiate satisfactory third-party payor arrangements. Unfavorable reimbursement arrangements or unfavorable utilization under capitated contracts, as well as termination of such contracts by third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment The dental industry and dental practices are highly regulated at the state and federal levels, as described in “Business-Government Regulation”. Many of these laws and regulations vary widely by state. In addition, these laws and regulations are enforced by federal and state regulatory authorities with broad discretion, and our agreements may be subject to review by these authorities from time to time. For example, regulatory authorities in some states in which we operate have obtained a copy of our service agreement for review in the past, and the North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners undertook an informal review of our service agreement with our North Carolina affiliated dental group practice pursuant to a new rule regarding management arrangements adopted by that board in 2001. We do not, and do not intend to, control the practice of dentistry by the affiliated practices or their compliance with the regulatory requirements directly applicable to dentists or the practice of dentistry. However, there can be no assurance that any review of our business relationships, including our relationship with the affiliated practices, by courts or other regulatory authorities, will not result in determinations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Similarly, there can be no assurance that the laws and regulatory environment will not change to restrict or limit the enforceability of our service agreements. The laws and regulations of some states in which we currently operate or may seek to expand may require us to change our contractual relationships with dental group practices in a manner that may restrict our operations in those states or may prevent us from affiliating with dental group practices or providing comprehensive business services to dental group practices in those states. We and the affiliated practices have various insurance coverages under which we and the affiliated practices are named as insureds and in certain instances have retention levels for which we and the affiliated practices are financially obligated. To the extent that contracts between third party payors and any affiliated practice or us, including self-insured plans, on a capitated or other basis which causes such affiliated practices or us to assume a portion of the financial risk of providing dental care, we or such affiliated practice may become subject to state insurance laws, in which case the affiliated practice may be required to change the method of payment from third party payors or seek appropriate licensure. If we or any affiliated practice is determined to be engaged in the business of insurance, we may be required to change our contractual relationships or seek appropriate licensure. Any regulation of us or the affiliated practices under insurance laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our future affiliations may not be successfully integrated or completed on acceptable terms Our strategy includes expansion through affiliations with dental group practices in new and existing communities and the expansion of such affiliated practices. Affiliations involve numerous risks, including failure to retain key personnel and contracts of the affiliated practices and the inability to work successfully with us as a business partner. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete additional affiliations on acceptable terms and conditions or that we will be able to serve successfully as a business partner to additional practices, and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The number of new affiliations and acquisitions over the next twelve months could be at levels greater or lower than we achieved in recent years. We may not realize the expected value of our intangible assets A significant portion of our total assets is represented by intangible assets, with the amount expected to increase with future affiliations. In addition, the related amortization expense will increase in the future as a result of additional intangible assets recorded in connection with new affiliations. In the event of any sale or liquidation of us or a portion of our assets, there can be no assurance that the value of our intangible assets will be realized. Management performs an impairment test on definite lived intangible assets when facts and circumstances exist which would suggest that the definite lived intangible asset may be impaired, such as loss of key personnel, change in legal factors or competition. If impairment were determined, we would make the appropriate adjustment to the intangible asset to reduce the asset’s carrying value to fair value. Any future determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by professional liability claims against the affiliated practices The affiliated practices and/or individual dentists in their employ could be exposed to the risk of professional liability claims, and it is possible that such claims could also be asserted against us. Such claims, if successful, could result in substantial damages that could exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. We are named as an insured under the professional liability insurance policy covering the affiliated practices. In addition, we also require each affiliated practice to indemnify us for actions or omissions related to the delivery of dental care by such affiliated practice. However, a successful professional liability claim against an affiliated practice or us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business Our continued success depends upon the retention of our senior officers, who have been instrumental in our success, and upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals. The loss of some of our senior officers, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Continued growth and success in our business depends, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 