D. Risk Factors Investment in developmental stage ventures such as Anooraq is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. The Company faces risks in executing its business plan and achieving revenues. The following risks are material risks that the Company faces. The Company also faces the risks identified elsewhere in this Annual Report. If any of these risks occur, the Company’s business and its operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and the Company may not be able to continue business operations as a going concern. Exploration and Development The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Although the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish ore reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs planned by Anooraq and its joint venture partners will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is dependent upon a number of factors. These include deposit attributes such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current and future metal prices - 15 - (which can be cyclical), and government regulations, including those relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and necessary supplies and environmental protection. The complete effect of these factors, either alone or in combination, cannot be entirely predicted, and their impact may result in Anooraq not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The figures for mineral resources incorporated by reference herein are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery will be realized. Market fluctuations and the prices of metals may render resources uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral deposits, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades of ore, may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. No Ore The Platreef Properties and the Ga-Phasha Project are in the exploration as opposed to the development stage and have no known body of economic mineralization. The known mineralization at these projects has not been determined to be ore. Although the Company believes that exploration data available is encouraging, particularly in respect to the Platreef Properties and Ga-Phasha projects, there can be no assurance that commercially mineable ore bodies exist. There is no certainty that any expenditure made in the exploration of the Company’s mineral properties will result in discoveries of commercially recoverable quantities of ore. Such assurance will require completion of final comprehensive feasibility studies and, possibly, further associated exploration and other work that concludes a potential mine at each of these projects is likely to be economic. In order to carry out exploration and development programs of any ore body and place it into commercial production, the Company must raise substantial additional funding. Economic Risk The likelihood of the future profitability of Anooraq’s operations may be significantly affected by changes in the market price of the metals it mines or explores for. The prices of PGM are volatile, and are affected by numerous factors beyond Anooraq’s control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, world supply of PGM and stability of exchange rates can all cause fluctuations in these prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political developments. The prices of PGM have fluctuated in recent years, and future significant price declines could cause commercial production to be uneconomic and may have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional Funding Requirements The Lebowa Transaction and further development and exploration of the various mineral properties in which Anooraq holds interests is dependent upon Anooraq’s ability to obtain financing through any or all of the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that Anooraq will be successful in obtaining the required financing. Mining Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Anooraq’s operations are subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of minerals. These include unusual and unexpected geological formations, rock falls, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, - 16 - mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. Although adequate precautions to minimize risk will be taken, milling operations are subject to hazards such as equipment failure or failure of retaining dams which may result in environmental pollution and consequent liability which would have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business and results of operation and financial condition. Government Regulation The exploration and mining activities of Anooraq are subject to various South African national, provincial and local laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, royalties, labour standards and occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Exploration activities and mining are also subject to various national, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws mandate, among other things, the maintenance of certain air and water quality standards, and land reclamation. These laws also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Although Anooraq’s activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations, no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail production or development. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of exploration, mining and milling or more stringent implementation thereof could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business, results of operation and financial condition. In 2003, the South African government presented the South African Parliament with the Royalty Bill, which proposed a royalty payable to the South African government for mineral production. In September 2006, the South African government issued a proposal to alter the proposed royalty rates, and a third draft of the Bill was placed before parliament on December 6, 2007, which confirms gross sales as the tax base but allows for deductions for beneficiation related expenses. The legislation has not yet been passed but is scheduled to become effective in 2009. It is currently not certain what the Act of Parliament resulting from the Royalty Bill will contain and what the effect of any resulting legislation will be. Due to this uncertainty, the Company is unable to definitively assess the impact thereof on its future operations. The Company may be adversely affected, as increased royalty fees may reduce the viability of the Company’s projects. South African Government Empowerment Initiatives The mining industry in South Africa, where the Company’s projects are located, is subject to extensive regulation. The regulatory environment is developing, lacks clarity in a number of areas and is subject to interpretation, review and amendment as the mining industry is further developed and liberalized. In addition, the regulatory process entails a public comment process, which makes the outcome of the legislation uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatory process. A number of significant matters have not been finalized, including the Royalty Bill, as well as legislation dealing with beneficiation. Anooraq cannot predict the outcome or timing of any amendments or modifications to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release of new regulations or their impact on its business. In October 2002, the South African Government enacted the Mineral Development Act that deals with the state’s policy towards the future of ownership of minerals rights and the procedures for conducting mining transactions in South Africa. The Mineral Development Act is an ambitious statute with wide-ranging objectives, including sustainable development and the promotion of equitable access to South Africa’s mineral wealth by the inclusion of HDP into the industry. The Mineral Development Act came into effect in May 2004. - 17 - The South African Government has stated it will be issuing permits and licenses for prospecting and mining rights to applicants using a "scorecard" approach. Applicants will need to demonstrate their eligibility for consideration based upon the number of credits accumulated in terms of quantifiable ownership transformation criteria, such as employment equity and human resource development. Future amendments to, and interpretations of, the economic empowerment initiatives by the South African Government and the South African courts could adversely affect the business of Anooraq and its operations and financial condition. Joint Venture Risks Anooraq holds the bulk of its assets in the form of participation interests of Plateau in joint ventures. Plateau’s interests in these projects are subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on Plateau’s profitability or the viability of its interests held through joint ventures, which could have a material adverse impact on Anooraq’s future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition: (i) disagreement with joint venture partners on how to proceed with exploration programs and how to develop and operate mines efficiently; (ii) inability of joint venture partners to meet their obligations to the joint venture or third parties; and (iii) litigation between joint venture partners regarding joint venture matters. See Item 5, "The Platreef Properties – Location and Property Description - Rietfontein Block" for a discussion of a current dispute with a joint venture partner. Title Matters While Anooraq has no reason to believe that the existence and extent of any of its properties is in doubt, title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. The mineral properties may be subject to previous unregistered agreements or transfers, and title may be affected by undetected defects or changes in mineral tenure laws. The Company’s mineral interests consist of mineral claims, which have not been surveyed, and therefore, the precise area and location of such claims or rights may be in doubt. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including the failure to pay taxes or to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the mineral rights are held by Anooraq. The Corporation’s mineral properties are subject to land claims which may adversely impact the Corporation’s mineral rights Each of the properties in which the Company has mineral rights is the subject of restitution claims by local communities. These restitution claims are against the government of South Africa and not the Company. While the Company does not believe that these claims will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s mineral rights or operations, there can be no assurance that the restitution claims may not have some adverse impact on the Company’s mineral rights or ability to explore, develop or mine its mineral properties. Insurance and Uninsured Risks Anooraq’s exploration operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labour disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failures, cave-ins, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result - 18 - in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to Anooraq’s properties or the properties of others, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Although Anooraq maintains insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as it considers to be reasonable, its insurance may not cover all the potential risks associated with a mining company’s operations. Anooraq may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to Anooraq or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. Anooraq might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which may not be insured against or which Anooraq may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause Anooraq to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon its financial performance and results of operations. Political Risk The principal assets of Anooraq are located in South Africa. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained against Anooraq in Canada or the United States. South Africa has recently undergone major constitutional changes to effect majority rule, and mineral title. Accordingly, many applicable laws are relatively new, resulting in risks such as possible misinterpretation of new laws, unilateral modification of mining or exploration rights, operating restrictions, increased taxes, environmental regulation, mine safety and other risks arising out of a new sovereignty over mining, any or all of which could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq. Anooraq’s operations may also be affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, power interruptions, terrorism, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and inflation. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in South Africa may adversely affect Anooraq’s operations or likelihood of future profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The Government of South Africa exercises control over such matters as exploration and mining licensing, permitting, exporting and taxation, which may adversely impact on Anooraq’s ability to carry out exploration, development and mining activities. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. Competition The mineral exploration and mining business is competitive in all of its phases. Anooraq competes with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than Anooraq, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Anooraq’s ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on its ability to develop its - 19 - present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration. There is no assurance that Anooraq will continue to be able to compete successfully with its competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. Environmental Risks Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There can be no assurance that future changes to environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Anooraq’s operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which Anooraq holds interests which are unknown to Anooraq at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Furthermore, compliance with environmental reclamation, closure and other requirements may involve significant costs and other liabilities. In particular, Anooraq’s operations and exploration activities are subject to South African national and provincial laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. Dependence on Key Personnel Anooraq is dependent on a relatively small number of key employees, the loss of any of whom may have an adverse effect on Anooraq. HIV/AIDS is prevalent in Southern Africa. Employees or contractors of the Company may have or could contract this potentially deadly virus. There has been a steady emigration of skilled personnel from Southern Africa in recent years. Generally, the prevalence of HIV/AIDS could cause lost employee man-hours and the emigration of skilled employees could adversely affect Anooraq’s ability to retain its employees. Exchange Rate Fluctuations Anooraq conducts operations in currencies other than Canadian dollars. The Company maintains most of its working capital in South African Rands (“ZAR”) or ZAR-denominated securities and converts its Canadian funds to foreign currencies, predominantly South African Rand, as certain payment obligations become due. The Company does not hedge the Company’s foreign currency exposure. Accordingly, the Company is subject to fluctuations in the rates of currency exchange between the Canadian dollar and these foreign currencies, and these fluctuations could materially affect its financial position and results of operations. The price of PGM is denominated in United States dollars and, accordingly, Anooraq’s future results of operations, if any, will be denominated and paid in United States dollars. In order to earn or maintain property interests, certain of Anooraq’s payments are to be made in the local currency in the jurisdiction where the applicable property is located. As a result, fluctuations in the United States dollar against the Canadian dollar and in each of those currencies against the South African Rand, or the local currencies of other jurisdictions where properties of Anooraq may be located, could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s financial results which are denominated and reported in Canadian dollars. Foreign Subsidiaries Anooraq conducts operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, and substantially all of its assets are held in such entities. Accordingly, any limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between the parent corporation and such entities, or among such entities, could restrict Anooraq’s ability to fund - 20 - its operations efficiently or its ability to transfer funds between the various entities of the corporation. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations may exist in the future, could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq’s valuation and stock price. Anooraq Has No History of Earnings and No Foreseeable Earnings Anooraq has a long history of losses and there can be no assurance that Anooraq will ever be profitable. Anooraq has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation. Anooraq anticipates that it will retain future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of its business. Anooraq does not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of Anooraq’s board of directors after taking into account many factors including Anooraq’s operating results, financial conditions and anticipated cash needs. Going Concern Assumption Anooraq’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming Anooraq will continue as a going concern; however, unless ongoing additional funding is obtained this assumption may have to change and Anooraq’s assets may have to be written down to asset prices realizable in insolvency or distress circumstances. Anooraq’s Share Price is Volatile The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource issuer like Anooraq, is affected by many variables not directly related to the exploration success of Anooraq, including the market for junior resource stocks, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares suggests Anooraq’s shares will continue to be volatile. Further, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company’s common shares in the United States and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Certain of Anooraq’s Directors and Officers are Part-Time and Serve as Directors and Officers of Other Companies Certain of the directors and officers of Anooraq serve as officers and/or directors of other resource exploration companies and are engaged in, and will continue to be engaged in, the search for additional resource opportunities on their own behalf and on behalf of other companies, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with Anooraq. Such potential conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of British Columbia corporate and common law. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors’ duties to Anooraq and their duties to the other companies on whose boards they serve, the directors and officers of Anooraq expect that participation in exploration prospects offered to the directors will be allocated between the various companies that they serve on the basis of prudent business judgement and the relative financial abilities and needs of the companies to participate. The success of Anooraq and its ability to continue to carry on operations is dependent upon its ability to retain the services of certain key employees and members of its board of directors. - 21 - Significant Potential Equity Dilution As at June 25, 2008 there were 7,670,000 options of Anooraq outstanding, of which all the options were in-the-money. Furthermore, subject to the settlement agreement with Pelawan dated as of December 28, 2006, the Company issued to the Pelawan Trust the BEE Warrants for the issue of 167 million Anooraq common shares. The BEE Warrants were exercisable until December 31, 2008 at the higher of (a) $1.35 if exercised on or before December 31, 2007 or $1.48 if exercised after December 31, 2007 or (b) at a price that is 50% less than the price per Anooraq common share payable by arms length parties under an equity financing undertaken by the Company that either raises an amount of at least $98,400,000 or is undertaken pursuant to a material transaction. On December 20, 2007, the Pelawan Trust exercised the BEE Warrants pursuant to an amended exercise procedure, by depositing an escrowed amount equal to the aggregate exercise price for the BEE Warrants (CAD 225 million or ZAR 1.586 billion) into an interest bearing account with Rand Merchant Bank (“RMB”), to be released pursuant to a deposit account agreement between RMB, Pelawan and Anooraq upon the satisfaction of certain release conditions. The Anooraq common shares underlying the BEE Warrants will be issued to the Pelawan Trust upon receipt by the Company of the exercise price per common share, plus the interest accrued thereon up to the date of release. The exercise of the outstanding options and the issue of the Anooraq common shares underlying the BEE Warrants will result in the issue by Anooraq of additional common shares and the unrestricted resale of these additional common shares may have a depressing effect on the current trading price of Anooraq's common shares. Possible failure to complete the Lebowa Transaction The Lebowa Transaction is subject to certain conditions and to normal commercial risks that the transaction may not be completed on the terms negotiated or at all. If closing of the Lebowa Transaction does not take place as contemplated, the Company could suffer adverse consequences, including the forfeiture of deposits or the loss of investor confidence. Possible failure to realize anticipated benefits of the Lebowa Transaction The Company is proposing to complete the Lebowa Transaction to realize its goal of becoming a significant PGM producer. Achieving the benefits of this and future acquisitions the Company may complete depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations, procedures and personnel in a timely and efficient manner, as well as the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses and operations with those of the Company. The integration of acquired businesses requires the dedication of substantial management effort, time and resources which may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during this process. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees and the disruption of ongoing business, customer and employee relationships that may adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and future acquisitions. Operational and resources and reserves risks relating to the Assets The risk factors set forth herein relating to the mining business and the operations and reserves of the Company apply equally in respect of the assets that the Company intends to acquire pursuant to the Lebowa Transaction. In particular, the resources and reserve information contained in the technical report prepared by Snowden in respect of such assets is only an estimate of actual production from, and ultimate resources and reserves of, those properties. Reserves of those properties may be greater or less than the estimates contained in such report. - 22 - Risks related to the acquisition of mining properties Acquisitions of mining properties or companies are based in large part on engineering, environmental and economic assessments made by the acquiror, independent engineers and consultants. These assessments include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and marketability of PGM, environmental restrictions and prohibitions regarding releases and emissions of various substances, future prices of PGM and operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond the control of the Company. All such assessments involve a measure of geologic, engineering, environmental and regulatory uncertainty that could result in lower production and reserves or higher operating or capital expenditures than anticipated. Although title and environmental reviews are conducted prior to any purchase of resource assets, such reviews cannot guarantee that any unforeseen defects in the chain of title will not arise to defeat the Company’s title to certain assets or those environmental defects or deficiencies do not exist. Such deficiencies or defects could reduce the amounts distributable to shareholders, and could result in a reduction of capital. Provisions in favour of Anglo Platinum in the Acquisition Agreements may adversely affect the Company’s interest in Lebowa and the Other Assets The Holdco Shareholders Agreement places a variety of restrictions on Plateau, its subsidiaries and its controlling shareholders which are designed to safeguard the HDP status of Holdco for an initial period, and at all times to provide Anglo Platinum with a degree of control, independent of BEE considerations, over who is the ultimate controlling shareholder of Holdco. Anooraq has given certain undertakings to Anglo Platinum in relation to the maintenance of its status as an HDP controlled company. If a breach of these undertakings occurs and Pelawan fails to “remedy” or “cure” (as such terms are defined in the Holdco Shareholders Agreement) such breach within the periods specified in the Holdco Shareholders Agreement, then RPM may compel Plateau to sell its interests in Holdco to another HDP at the best possible price in the circumstances. Such a forced sale may affect the market price of the Company’s Common Shares if the forced sale occurs at less than fair market value of Plateau’s interests or if the new HDP is not viewed favorably by the market. At any time during the term of the Holdco Shareholders Agreement, if a change in control of Holdco occurs (including a change in control approved of by the DME, or that arises out of a “cure” described above), then Plateau is required to “remedy” the change. If Plateau fails to “remedy” the change in control within the period specified in the Holdco Shareholders Agreement, then RPM will be entitled to compel the purchase by Plateau of RPM’s interests in Holdco for fair market value. There can be no assurance that Plateau will have sufficient funds to effect such a purchase. If Plateau were forced to sell its interest in Holdco pursuant to the minority protections in the Holdco Shareholders Agreement, such a sale would have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by the current South African electricity crisis The Company’s mineral projects are supplied with power from Eskom, the South African national utility provider. Since mid-January 2008, South Africa has been in the midst of an electrical energy supply crisis. This crisis has arisen following an inconsistency between installed, available, electrical generation capacity and rapidly growing demand. On January 29, 2008, Eskom announced a three phase National - 23 - Stabilisation Plan which focuses on both demand side management and supply side stabilisation. Eskom will be moving through power rationing and power conservation phases during 2008/09 which require a national consumption reduction of 3,000 megawatts (MW). This has resulted in a planned load shedding across the country, with effect from April 1, 2008, to ensure system stability. The mining and industrial sectors have been operating under a 90% to 95% power supply constraint, which is likely to remain in force for the remainder of 2008 and 2009 with a real likelihood of short duration outages during the 2008 winter months. The first meaningful supply side increase from Eskom is anticipated to occur in 2012 when the first phase of the new Medupi Power Station comes on line. There can be no assurance that Eskom will deliver increased supply within this timeline. The Company is currently investigating supplementary power generation options and is taking steps to reduce its rate of electrical consumption, however, there can be no assurance that the supply of electricity from Eskom will be adequate or that the Company will be able to obtain supplementary sources of power. If Eskom is not able to supply a sufficient amount of electricity to the Company’s mineral projects, this may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition. - 24 - 