Item 1A Risk Factors Investing in our common stock is very speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all of the information in this report before making an investment decision. The following are among the risks we face related to our business, assets and operations. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also arise. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. You should not purchase our shares unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. Our business may not be able to continue as a going concern, and we will need to raise additional capital to continue operations through the 4th quarter of 2014. We believe that our current financial resources will support ongoing operations, working capital, and capital expenditures into the 4th quarter of 2014. However, we will not be able to continue operations through the 4th quarter, without raising additional funding. We believe that there is sufficient risk in achieving revenue levels sufficient to generate liquidity adequate to cover our costs of operations, working capital, and capital expenditures without raising additional capital. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, our production, research, development and testing, and other commercial activities will be materially and adversely affected, and we may be unable to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or to continue our operations through the 4th quarter of 2014. The inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts and on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and could result in our inability to continue as a going concern which would mean that we would need to wind down our business. We are subject to stringent environmental regulation. We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. We believe that all permits and licenses required for our current business activities are in place. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our property or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, or financial condition. Our products contain hazardous materials including lead. Lead is a toxic material that is an important raw material in our batteries. We also use, generate and discharge other toxic, volatile and hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research, development and manufacturing activities. We are required to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and environmental protection. Under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek to recover response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. In addition, more stringent laws and regulations may be adopted in the future, and the costs of complying with those laws and regulations could be substantial. If we fail to control the use of, or inadequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines, or be forced to suspend certain operations. As we sell our products, we may become the subject of product liability claims. Due to the hazardous nature of many of the key materials used in the manufacturing of our batteries, the producers of such products may be exposed to a greater number of product liability claims, including possible environmental claims. We currently have domestic product liability insurance up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate to protect us against the risk that in the future a product liability claim or product recall could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our product. We cannot assure you that as we continue distribution of our products that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate coverage on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could materially and adversely affect our reputation and prospects, and divert management’s time and attention. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our future products our liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay such liability. 12 We depend on key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives, employees, and consultants. Our business is dependent upon the knowledge and experience of our key scientists, engineers, manufacturing staff and executive officers. Given the competitive nature of our industry, there is the risk that one or more of our key scientists or engineers will resign their positions, which could have a disruptive impact on our operations. If any of our key scientists, engineers or executive officers do not continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and our business may be severely disrupted. If any of these individuals joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose important know-how and experience and incur substantial expense to recruit and train suitable replacements. Our Compensation Committee remains committed to keeping our key team members in place as we move forward into greater commercialization of our PbC product. Currently, all of our key employees have employment contracts that include non-compete provisions. Our operations expose us to litigation, tax, environmental and other legal compliance risks. We are subject to a variety of litigation, tax, environmental, health and safety and other legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible liability relating to product liability matters, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract-related claims, government contracts, taxes, health and safety liabilities, environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. We or one of our business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments or other damages (in certain cases, treble damages). As a business with international reach, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses and payments, and uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. In the area of taxes, changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions and existing investigations could be expanded. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. In the sourcing of our products throughout the world, we process, store, dispose of and otherwise use large amounts of hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; remediation of polluted ground or water; emissions or discharges of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and the health and safety of our employees. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, or to obtain or comply with required environmental permits, could result in fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators. From time to time we have had instances of alleged or actual noncompliance that have resulted in the imposition of fines, penalties and required corrective actions. Our ongoing compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits could require us to incur significant expenses, limit our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production and require us to install additional pollution control equipment and make other capital improvements. In addition, private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us or contained in our products. Certain environmental laws assess liability on owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their current or former properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. These laws may also assess costs to repair damage to natural resources. We may be responsible for remediating damage to our properties caused by former owners. Soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some of our current and former properties and may occur or be discovered at other properties in the future. We are currently investigating and monitoring soil and groundwater contamination at several of our properties, in most cases as required by regulatory permitting processes. We may be required to conduct these operations at other properties in the future. In addition, we have been and in the future may be liable to contribute to the cleanup of locations owned or operated by other persons to which we or our predecessor companies have sent wastes for disposal, pursuant to federal and other environmental laws. Under these laws, the owner or operator of contaminated properties and companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of wastes sent to a contaminated disposal facility can be held jointly and severally liable for the investigation and cleanup of such properties, regardless of fault. 13 Changes in environmental and climate laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in production designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw materials costs. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we have been or at all times will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits, or that we will not be exposed to material environmental, health or safety litigation. Risks related to our PbC Technology We have limited manufacturing experience with respect to our PbC technology, which may translate into cost overruns in manufacturing our products. We have limited manufacturing experience with respect to production of our commercial PbC negative electrodes in quantities required to achieve our operational goals, and there is no assurance that we will be able to retain a qualified manufacturing staff or effectively manage the manufacturing of our proposed products when we are ready to do so. We began the commercial production of our energy storage devices in the fourth quarter of 2012. As production levels increase, we may experience cost overruns in manufacturing our PbC products, and we may not have sufficient capital in the future to successfully complete such tasks. In addition, we may not be able to manufacture our products because of industry conditions, general economic conditions, and/or competition from potential manufacturers and distributors. These inabilities could cause us to abandon our current business plan and may cause our operations to eventually fail. We need to continue to improve the performance of our commercial PbC products to meet future requirements and competitive pressures We need to continue to improve various aspects of our PbC technology as we move forward with larger scale production and new applications of our products. Future developments and competition may reveal additional technical issues that are not currently recognized as obstacles. If we cannot continue to improve the performance of our products in a timely manner, we may be forced to redesign or delay large scale production or possibly abandon our product development efforts altogether. We do not have any long-term supplier contracts. We currently purchase the raw materials for our carbon electrodes and a variety of other components from third parties. We then fabricate our carbon electrodes and build our products in-house. We do not have any long-term contracts with suppliers of raw materials and components, and our current suppliers may be unable to satisfy our future requirements on a timely basis. Moreover, the price of purchased raw materials and components could fluctuate significantly due to circumstances beyond our control. If our current suppliers are unable to satisfy our long-term requirements on a timely basis, we may be required to seek alternative sources for necessary materials and components or redesign our proposed products to accommodate available substitutes. We are a small player in an intensely competitive international market and may be unable to compete. The lead-acid battery industry is large, intensely competitive and resistant to technological change. We may need to compete or enter into further strategic relationships with well-established companies that are much larger and have greater financial capital and other resources than we do. We may be unable to convince end users that products based on our PbC technology are superior to available alternatives. Moreover, if competitors introduce similar products, they may have a greater ability to withstand price competition and finance their marketing programs. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. Our failure to introduce new products and product enhancements and broad market acceptance of new technologies introduced by our competitors could adversely affect our business. Many new energy storage technologies have been introduced over the past several years. For certain important and growing international energy storage markets, lithium-based battery technologies have a large and growing market share. Our ability to achieve significant and sustained penetration of key developing markets, including aerospace and defense, will depend upon our success in developing or acquiring these and other technologies, either independently, through joint ventures or through acquisitions. If we fail to develop or acquire, and manufacture and sell, products that satisfy our customers’ demands, or we fail to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products, then market acceptance of our products could be reduced and our business could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our products will remain competitive with products based on new technologies. 14 To the extent we enter into strategic relationships, we will be dependent upon our partners. Some of our products are not intended for direct sale to end users and our business may require us to enter into strategic relationships with manufacturers of other power industry equipment that use batteries and other energy storage devices as important components of their finished products. The agreements governing any future strategic relationships may not provide us with control over the activities of any strategic relationship we negotiate and our future partners, if any, could retain the right to terminate the strategic relationship at their option. Our future partners will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and level of resources that they dedicate to our products and may be unwilling or unable to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, our future partners may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with the products that we intend to produce. Risks relating to our intellectual property We may rely on licenses for our PbC technology, which may affect our continued operations with respect thereto. As we develop our PbC technology, we may need to license additional technologies to optimize the performance of our products. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our proposed products. Our inability to obtain any necessary licenses could delay our product development and testing until alternative technologies can be identified, licensed and integrated. The inability to obtain any necessary third-party licenses could cause us to abandon a particular development path, which could seriously harm our business, financial position and results of our operations. New technology may lead to our competitors developing superior products which would reduce demand for our products. Research into the electrochemical applications for carbon nanotechnology and other storage technologies is proceeding at a rapid pace, and many private and public companies and research institutions are actively engaged in the development of new battery technologies based on carbon nanotubes, nanostructured carbon materials and other non-carbon materials. These new technologies may, if successfully developed, offer significant performance or price advantages when compared with our technologies. There is no assurance that our existing patents or our pending and proposed patent applications will offer meaningful protection if a competitor develops a novel product based on a new technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and preserve our trade secrets, we will increase our vulnerability to competitors which could materially adversely impact our ability to remain in business. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend on our ability to protect those products and our technology with domestic and foreign patents. We will also need to continue to preserve our trade secrets. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. The patent positions of technology companies, including us, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. We cannot assure you that our patents will prevent other companies from developing similar products or products which produce benefits substantially the same as our products, or that other companies will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require us to pay significant licensing fees in order to market our products. From time to time, we may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties in order to develop, manufacture and market our products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially exploit such products may be inhibited or prevented. Additionally, we cannot assure investors that any of our products or technology will be patentable or that any future patents we obtain will give us an exclusive position in the subject matter claimed by those patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patent protection will be secured for any particular technology, or that our issued patents will be valid or enforceable or provide us with meaningful protection. If we are required to engage in expensive and lengthy litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, the costs of such litigation could be material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and, if we are unsuccessful, the results of such litigation could materially adversely impact our entire business. We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We plan to aggressively defend our proprietary technology and any issued patents if funding is available to do so. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights and proprietary technologies can often be time-consuming and expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is inherently uncertain. 15 Although we have entered into invention assignment agreements with our employees and with certain advisors, if those employees or advisors develop inventions or processes independently which may relate to products or technology under development by us, disputes may also arise about the ownership of those inventions or processes. Time-consuming and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our rights under these agreements. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our strategic partners, customers, suppliers, employees and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We may be required to commence litigation to enforce such agreements, and it is certainly possible that we will not have adequate remedies for breaches of our confidentiality agreements. Other companies may claim that our technology infringes on their intellectual property or proprietary rights and commence legal proceedings against us which could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in our being prohibited from developing, marketing, selling or distributing our products. Because of the complex and difficult legal and factual questions that relate to patent positions in our industry, we cannot assure you that our products or technology will not be found to infringe upon the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our products or technology infringe on their patents, copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary rights and demand that we cease development or marketing of those products or technology or pay license fees. We may not be able to avoid costly patent infringement litigation, which will divert the attention of management away from the development of new products and the operation of our business. We cannot assure investors that we would prevail in any such litigation. If we are found to have infringed on a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be liable for money damages, encounter significant delays in bringing products to market or be precluded from manufacturing particular products or using particular technology. Other parties may challenge certain of our foreign patent applications. If such parties are successful in opposing our foreign patent applications, we may not gain the protection afforded by those patent applications in particular jurisdictions and may face additional proceedings with respect to similar patents in other jurisdictions, as well as related patents. The loss of patent protection in one jurisdiction may influence our ability to maintain patent protection for the same technology in other jurisdictions. Risks relating to our recent financing Our recently acquired indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. We consummated a private placement on May 8, 2013 in which we issued an aggregate $9 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes and $1 million principal amount of Junior Convertible Notes. The Senior Convertible Notes are payable in nine equal monthly installments with the first prepayment made in June, 2013. The Junior Convertible Notes are payable 91 days after the principal amount of the Senior Convertible Notes is repaid. Although the notes are payable through the issuance of shares of our common stock to the noteholders, our ability to issue stock, instead of paying cash, to satisfy our payment obligations under the notes, is limited and subject to various conditions (including trading volume and stock price conditions for our Senior Convertible Notes) that we may not be able to meet. If we cannot meet these conditions, we could be required to repay some or all of the amounts due under the notes in cash, and we may not have the funds available to make one or more of such payments when due. Even if we do have funds so available, the use of cash to make such payments could adversely affect our ability to fund operations due to the diversion of necessary cash flow to fund operations to utilization for note payments. Furthermore, the notes impose certain restrictive covenants on us which may impede our ability to operate our business or raise further funds in the capital markets. For example, there are restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness, with exceptions, while the notes are outstanding. We are making, and intend to continue making, payments on our Senior Convertible Notes and Subordinated Convertible Notes in shares of our common stock, which could be highly dilutive to our shareholders. As of the date of this document, we do not believe that we will have the financial ability, nor would it be in the best interests of our shareholders, to make all payments on the notes in cash when due. Thus, we intend, as of the date hereof, to make such payments in shares of our common stock, to the greatest extent possible. Such payments shall be very dilutive to our shareholders. Risks relating to our common stock We have issued a large number of warrants and options, which if exercised, would substantially increase the number of common shares outstanding. On February 28, 2014, we had 205,261,452 shares of common stock outstanding, and (a) we have warrants outstanding that, if fully exercised, would generate proceeds of $6,366,162 and cause us to issue up to an additional 20,826,436 shares of common stock, with 17,281,107 of these warrants classified as derivative liabilities, and (b) we have options outstanding to purchase common stock that, if fully exercised, would generate proceeds of $5,734,116 and result in the issuance of an additional 3,431,729 shares of common stock. 16 Our stock price may not stabilize at current levels. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Market, Inc.’s OTCQB. Trading in our common stock has demonstrated wide ranges of volume, and the market price has been volatile. The closing price reported as of March 6, 2014, the latest practicable date, was $0.15 per share. Current quotations are not necessarily a reliable indicator of value and there is no assurance that the market price of our stock will stabilize at or near current levels. 