Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding Covansys’ future operating results, performance, business plans or prospects and any other statements not constituting historical fact are “forward-looking statements” subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Where possible, words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “planned,” “estimates,” “potential,” “goal,” “outlook,” “may,” “predicts,” “could,” or the negative of those words and other comparable expressions, are used to identify such forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating those statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Those factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any of Covansys’ forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or a person on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. All forward-looking statements reflect only our current beliefs and assumptions with respect to our future results, business plans, and prospects, and are based solely on information currently available to us. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity or performance. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this annual report and, except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we assume no obligation to update or revise them or to provide reasons why actual results may differ. Risks, uncertainties and contingencies include: Changes in Estimates Could Effect the Profitability of Our Fixed Price Projects Covansys realized approximately 35.5% of its 2006 revenue from fixed price contracts (percentage of completion as well as fixed price IT outsourcing and maintenance). Approximately 6.3% of revenue was realized from fixed price contracts with respect to which we recognize revenue on a percentage of completion basis. Changes in estimated costs to complete as a result of the subjectivity inherent in estimating the costs to complete could be unfavorable and change our estimates of the ultimate profitability on these projects. These projects generally contain payment terms that are tied to the successful achievement of delivered milestones. These milestones frequently require a substantial level of work and thus expose the Company to large unbilled balances. The ultimate payment of these balances is dependent on the acceptance of the deliverables contractually agreed to relative to each milestone. Internal Control Weaknesses Could Effect the Reliability of Our Financial Statements In our September 30, 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, management disclosed a material weakness in our control over financial reporting. We determined that we did not have an effective process in place to document our selection, application and evaluation of the appropriate revenue recognition treatment for complex contractual arrangements with customers involving multiple deliverables, a significant portion of which were divested as part of the sale of our state and local consulting practice in June 2006. Also, in our 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, management disclosed various material weaknesses in our internal control environment. We effectively remediated these weaknesses during 2006 and 2005. While our assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2006, our internal control environment is effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control environment is not effective, we may be required to change our internal controls to remediate deficiencies, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. Also, if we identify areas of our internal control environment that require improvement, we could incur additional expenses to implement enhanced processes and controls to address such issues. Any such events could adversely effect our financial results and/or may result in a negative reaction in the stock market. 5 Table of Contents Our Operating Results are Difficult to Predict Because They Vary from Quarter to Quarter Our revenue and operating results can vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including: • The timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • Changes in the rates we charge clients for services; • Employee hiring, attrition, utilization and billing rates; • Progress on fixed-price projects during a quarter; and • Our ability to obtain a written contract prior to the end of a quarter. Because a high percentage of our expenses are fixed, such as personnel and facilities costs, a variation in revenue may cause a significant variation in our quarterly operating results and could result in losses. Failure to Recruit, Train and Retain Skilled Resources Could Increase Costs or Limit Growth Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled IT professionals and project managers with the necessary technical skills and experience who may be in high demand worldwide. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract or retain the IT professionals and project managers that we seek. Government Regulation of Immigration may Negatively Impact Our Ability to Staff Projects. The Company recruits its IT professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration laws of the countries in which it operates, particularly the United States. Pursuant to U.S. federal law, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration and Services (“CIN”) limits the number of new H-1B visas to be approved in any government fiscal year. In years in which this limit is reached, the Company may be unable to obtain enough H-1B visas to bring a sufficient number of foreign employees to the U.S. If the Company were unable to obtain sufficient H-1B employees, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress and administrative agencies have periodically expressed concerns over the levels of legal immigration into the U.S. These concerns have often resulted in proposed legislation, rules and regulations aimed at reducing the number of visas that may be issued. Adverse changes to these immigration and work permit regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential Anti-Outsourcing Legislation. In the recent past, the issue of outsourcing of services abroad by companies has become a topic of political discussion in the United States and in other countries. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by companies are under discussion in U.S. Congress as well as in as many of the state legislatures in addition to other countries. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been enacted to date that significantly adversely affects the Company, given the continuing debate over this issue, the introduction and enactment of such legislation is possible. If introduced and enacted, such measures are likely to fall within two categories: (1) a broadening of restrictions on outsourcing by government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and/or (2) measures that impact private industry, such as tax disincentives, restriction on the transfer or maintenance of certain information abroad and/or intellectual property transfer restrictions. In the event that any such measures become law, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and our ability to service our customers could be impaired. Dependence on Key Personnel. The success of the Company may be highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of Rajendra B. Vattikuti, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President and other key personnel. The loss of the services of 6 Table of Contents these key personnel for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. We are Exposed to Regulatory, Political and General Economic Conditions in India and Asia that Differ from Those in the United States Revenue generated by our India and Asia operations, as calculated on a full attribution basis, from both direct services provided to clients in India and Asia as well as services provided to customers in the United States and Europe accounted for approximately 35% of our 2006 revenue. In addition, over 79% of our workforce is located in India and Asia. We benefit directly from certain incentives provided by the Indian government to encourage foreign investment, including tax holidays (temporary exemptions from taxation on operating income) and liberalized import and export duties. If the Indian government changes any of these incentives, it could negatively impact the profitability of our Indian operations. Changes in interest rates, inflation rates, tax rates and policies, or other social, political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future could have an adverse effect on our business. Our foreign operations are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions and related issues that may adversely impact our operating results. In addition, if we fail to manage our geographically dispersed operations we may not meet our financial objectives. Our Contracts are Short-Term and Contain Termination Provisions that Exposes Us to Greater Variability in Revenue Many of our contracts have terms of less than one year. A client may choose not to renew its contract when it terminates. Under some of our contracts, clients may unilaterally reduce the use of our services with little or no notice and without penalty. Many of our contracts have termination provisions and contracts with our public sector state and local clients typically include termination for convenience provisions required by law. If we are unable to retain our existing clients, our business could be adversely affected. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in a loss of revenues and could require us to pay a number of unassigned IT professionals until new engagements can be obtained. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets That Could Effect Our Profitability The IT services industry is highly competitive, undergoing consolidation and is served by many national, regional and local firms, all of which are either existing or potential competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets. We have faced, and we expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into our markets as well as intensive pricing pressures from that competition. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Some of Our Clients May Experience Unique Economic Conditions that are Specific to Their Particular Industry We provide services to clients in a wide variety of industries. Many of the industries are subject to factors and economic conditions that are unique to the particular industry and may not be reflected in the overall health of the economy in general. Our revenue growth and the realizability of our accounts receivable could be adversely affected if our clients in these particular industries encounter economic difficulties. Such difficulties could include: • The inability of participants in the industry to access the capital or credit markets; • Business slowdowns due to excess inventory; and • Shortfalls in demand for the product or service produced by a particular industry. 7 Table of Contents We Frequently Need to Negotiate Contract Renewals on Comparable Terms to Maintain Our Profitability Contracts continually expire and must be renegotiated or rebid. Due to the competitive nature of our industry and variable economic status of our clients, we may experience difficulty in negotiating terms comparable to existing or recently expired contracts. We Have Limited Protection of Our Intellectual Property Rights Our success depends in part upon certain of our solutions and methodologies that we utilize in providing IT services to our clients. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property and/or perform services. However, these may not be adequate to protect our rights or those of our customers. Our Services May Infringe Upon the Intellectual Property Rights of Others We cannot be sure that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services. In some contracts, we have agreed to indemnify, and may in the future agree to indemnify, our clients for certain expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the customer. While there are no current claims as of this date, any claims or litigation in this area may be costly and result in large awards against us and, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming, may injure our reputation, may result in costly delays or may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. If there is a successful claim of infringement or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights we require on a timely basis, our ability to use certain technologies, products and services may be limited, and our business may be harmed. We May Face Legal Liabilities and Damage to our Professional Reputation From Claims Made Against Our Work. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The provisions we typically include in our contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances or the laws of some jurisdictions. We have experienced liability claims in the past that have resulted in litigation expenses and payments for settlements. Because of the nature of our business, we may have claims asserted against us in the future. Moreover, as a consulting firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation to attract and retain clients and employees. As a result, claims alleged by clients may be more damaging in our industry than in other businesses. We May Fail to Properly Manage Acquisitions and Strategic Investments We have expanded, and plan to continue to expand our operations through acquisitions of additional businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • Diversion of management’s attention; • Failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • Assumption of unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; and • Difficulties in integrating systems, operations and cultures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 Table of Contents 