D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We may be unable to operate as a going concern due to a deterioration in our liquidity and the unavailability of trade credit on favorable terms. The consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 18 of this Annual Report were prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business are dependent on, among other things, our ability to operate profitably, to generate cash flows from operations, and maintain credit facilities adequate to support our working capital requirements. As discussed below, we have continued to suffer recurring losses from operations and generate negative cash flows that raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated 6 Table of Contents financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 18 of this Annual Report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We continue to face difficult market conditions for certain segments of our market, which have caused significant operating losses and placed considerable pressure on our liquidity. We have historically incurred operating losses and, for the year ended March 31, 2007, we had a loss of $13.3 million on an actual basis and a loss of $39.8 million on a pro forma basis. As of March 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $2.1 million and available credit facilities of $15.0 million, of which $9.5 million were utilized as borrowings. While historical Corgi raised approximately $17.6 million in equity in December 2006, a significant portion of the proceeds was utilized to pay indebtedness, including trade payables, of historical Corgi and Cards, associated transaction costs, effecting the sale of the Zindart Manufacturing division, and restructuring costs and to fund continuing operating losses of the combined company. In the event that we can not obtain additional financing (equity or debt) or generate positive cash flows from operations, we will be required to dispose of business units or assets, perhaps at a significant discount to the fair value thereof, seek bankruptcy protection or commence liquidation or other administrative proceedings. We have incurred losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We have had a history of operating and net losses. We had an actual operating loss and net loss of $13.3 million and pro forma net loss of $39.8 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We cannot provide any assurance that operating profitability or net profitability can be achieved or sustained due to several factors, including, but not limited to: • we need additional capital to effect our business plan and to make additional investment in product development and growth activities, and the cost of capital, and any inability to raise additional capital, may limit our growth and reduce our profitability; • as we seek to achieve organic growth or growth through acquisitions, additional investment in product development activities will be necessary; • we may fail to achieve our current strategic initiatives to increase market awareness of the Company, our products and our brands; • many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and cannot be reduced quickly if actual revenues are lower than expected. As a result of such fixed expenses, revenue shortfalls could result in lower profitability or greater losses than anticipated for any given period, which could have a negative impact on our share price. • competition in the collectibles, gift and toy industries is expected to continue to exert price pressure and we also may face continued pressure from retailers to reduce our margins, unfavorably affecting our net sales; • we may face increased costs relating to licensing of entertainment franchises and we may not be able to obtain licenses for popular entertainment franchises in the future, either of which could negatively affect our sales and profitability; • our expenses may increase due to increased manufacturing costs, including higher labor and raw materials costs such as Zinc for our die-cast products. In addition, recently imposed requirements for additional lead testing at manufacturing facilities will further increase manufacturing costs; • product costs and profit margins may be unfavorably affected due to foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound; • customer defaults, bankruptcies or poor financial condition could result in the loss of revenue or the decision not to continue, or to reduce, business with customers; • ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to increase general and administrative expenses; 7 Table of Contents • changes in accounting standards, such as recognition of compensation costs relating to employee stock option plans in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share Based Payment”, will increase our operating expenses; • changes in regulatory law, taxes or in the overall political conditions in China may cause an increase in our operating expenses; and If we do not successfully integrate the historical Corgi business with Master Replicas and Cards, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or derive other strategic or cost benefits from the recent acquisition and merger. In order to capitalize on the merger of Master Replicas and historical Corgi and the acquisition of Cards, we will need to successfully integrate three business operations into an integrated company, which will require consolidation of operations, systems and procedures, products, office space, warehouses and personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will successfully identify redundant resources or effectively implement their consolidation or elimination. While we believe the businesses of Corgi, Master Replicas and Cards are complementary, management’s predictions regarding anticipated synergies and efficiencies, and our ability to capture additional market share as a result of the integration of these businesses, may be incorrect. Our failure to successfully integrate these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our financial situation and operating results. Product liability, product quality controls, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our product, as well compliance with governmental regulations by our manufacturing customers, could increase our costs. Because we sell collectibles, gifts and toys to consumers, we face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations in a multiple of jurisdictions. If we fail to comply with these regulations or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed our product liability insurance coverage, currently in the amount of $27 million, and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. In addition, our licenses may give the licensor the right to terminate the license if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. We also implement quality controls with respect to our products. Monitoring the quality of products produced by third parties is expensive, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in identifying all products that do not comply with our quality standards or that we will successfully prevent such products from reaching the market. Sales of such products could negatively affect our reputation, resulting in a decrease in net sales. Sales of such products could negatively affect our reputation, resulting in a decrease in net sales. The industry has long recognized the risks associated with lead and participated in the establishment of federal standards for lead in children’s products over 30 years ago. In 1998, the toy industry agreed to abide by an even more stringent standard for lead than required by the federal regulations. While we are continually re-examining and improving our safety procedures, there is always an inherent risk that such procedures will not be followed by our manufacturers and suppliers. We may engage in additional acquisitions and mergers in the future as part of our growth strategy. Our failure to successfully integrate new businesses may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, capital expenditures and other aspects of our business. Our growth strategy is to continue to engage in acquisitions or mergers as opportunities arise, which may affect our revenues, profit margins, capital expenditures, or other aspects of our business. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, we will be able to acquire these targets on acceptable terms or at all. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks including: the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability; unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company may impair the feasibility of the acquisition; possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company may negatively affect the expected benefits of the acquisition; difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; diversion of management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; and unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. These difficulties or our failure to achieve the expected benefits from past or future consolidations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial situation. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We market a majority of our products with licenses from other parties. These licenses are limited in scope and duration and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on a nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments, including up-front payments in the form of letters of credit or cash, that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Over the next two years, license agreements in connection with several of our key licensed properties are scheduled to expire, including our license for Star Wars products from Lucasfilm Ltd. which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007. 8 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2007, on a pro forma basis, net sales of our products with the licensed properties of Lucasfilm Ltd. for Star Wars related products accounted for approximately 24.3% of total net sales, or approximately $19.8 million compared to total net sales of $81.5 million. We and Lucasfilm Ltd. have elected not to renew our license with Lucasfilm Ltd., as a result of which we will not have the right to sell Star Wars products, other than a limited right for a 90-day period beginning on December 31, 2007 to sell off pre-ordered product. No other licensed property accounted for more than 10% of our pro forma net sales for six-month period ended March 31, 2007. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008, we expect sales of Harry Potter licensed properties to exceed 10% of our total net sales for the period, although there can be no assurance as to any amount of actual sales of these products. Our license for Harry Potter products expires on December 31, 2009. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or any inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our products or develop new products and could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses could require us to pay licensors higher royalties or higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, which could increase our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. If we fail to attract and retain qualified management and personnel, our performance may suffer. Our success is substantially dependent upon our executive management, as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified design, manufacturing and marketing personnel. In particular, we are highly reliant upon the continued involvement of Michael Cookson, our Chief Executive Officer, and Darren Epstein, former Chief Executive Officer of Cards and our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, and other members of our senior management team. After consummation of the merger with Master Replicas, Mr. Cookson entered into a three year employment contract with us to help ensure his continued management of the company over the next three years. Nevertheless, if Mr. Cookson were to terminate his employment with us, or if we were to lose any of our current executive management team members for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are not the beneficiaries of any “key person” life insurance policy on Michael Cookson, Mr. Epstein or any other member of our senior management as of the date hereof. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Sales of a majority of our products are seasonal and dependent on the timing of movie, DVD and video game releases, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Our net sales and profitability are customarily slowest in the quarter ending March 31. However, unlike many collectible, gift and toy companies, we may benefit from Spring, Summer, Fall and holiday movie, DVD and video game releases that can help drive the sales of our products. Our quarterly results will be affected depending on whether or not we have obtained licenses for popular movie, DVD or video games released in such quarter. Quarterly variations in operating results may cause us to increase our debt levels and interest expense in any quarter and may tend to depress our stock price during such quarters. If we fail to comply with internal controls evaluation requirements our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC pursuant to such Act. We expect compliance with these requirements to be time-consuming and expensive. If we fail to timely complete the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting in time, or if we identify material weaknesses in these internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and decreased public confidence in our internal controls, which may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. In connection with historical Corgi’s merger with Master Replicas, we entered into tax indemnity agreements under which Corgi is required to indemnify former Master Replicas shareholders against U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, interest and penalties if the merger transaction fails to qualify as a reorganization as defined by section 368(a) of the United States tax code. While we believe the merger transaction complies with such rule, there can be no assurance of the foregoing. 9 Table of Contents Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Mattel, Inc., Hasbro, Inc., RC2 and The Franklin Mint, as well as broad range of smaller gift, toy and collectibles companies. In addition, several large retailers are developing and selling their own private label gift, toy and collectible products. We compete on the basis of products, shelf-space and consumer spending. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the collectible, gift and toy industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. We may not be able to collect our outstanding accounts receivable, and we depend on maintaining a relationship with our largest customers for the successful operation of our business. Many of our largest customers generally purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of these customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell. For the year ended March 31, 2007, on a pro forma basis none of our customers represented more than 5% of our consolidated net sales. We rely on a limited number of foreign suppliers in China to manufacture substantially all of our products. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers in China to manufacture substantially all of our products. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. However, we have entered into a three-year production agreement with Zindart Manufacturing Limited (historical Corgi’s former Chinese factory division) to purchase up to $7.5 million in products for the first year, $5.5 million in the second year and $5.0 million in the third year, subject to competitive pricing and other conditions. Difficulties encountered by these suppliers such as fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of a contagious disease at one or more of their facilities could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. Any of these risks could increase our expenses or reduce our net sales, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our manufacturers may decide not to continue producing our products. Several quality manufacturing alternatives may be available in China, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to find alternate producers on a timely basis, if at all, or that alternate producers will be able to meet our quality standards. Also, prices charged by the alternate vendors may be higher than those charged by our current manufacturers. The related price increases could unfavorably affect our financial position and results of operations. Increases in the cost of the raw materials used to manufacture our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. Since our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, we do not directly purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products. However, the prices we pay our manufacturers may increase if their raw materials, labor or other costs increase. We may not be able to pass along such price increases to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs associated with the manufacturing of our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. For example, increases in the price of zinc, a key component in die-cast products, and increased costs in China, primarily for labor, may continue to reduce our gross margins in the future. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and in British pounds sterling. Generally, the expenses for our third-party manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Renminbi or Hong Kong dollars. As a 10 Table of Contents result, any material increase in the value of the Hong Kong dollar or the Chinese Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar or the British pound would increase our expenses and, therefore, could adversely affect our profitability. We currently do not hedge our foreign currency risk. Our present assessments of future economic trends may adversely affect the accuracy of our earnings projections and guidance disclosed to the public. From time to time we release earnings projections and disclose guidance to the public with respect to estimated results of operations. Our current calculations and predictions with regard to future demand and sales of our products are based on estimates derived from present assessments of future economic trends, movie trends and sales forecasts based on information provided by our existing and potential customers. Such estimates, however, remain uncertain. In the event that the economic outlook does not continue in accordance with our economic estimates, or the films we expect to be popular do not turn out to be so, the rate of growth of demand for our products may stagnate and, consequently, our sales may not increase and may even decrease. In addition, as it is difficult to predict accurately blockbuster movies and related demand for movie replicas, we may not accurately gauge the effect of movie successes on our business. As a result, our actual results of operations may materially deviate from our earlier projections or we may not react to such changing conditions in a timely manner, which may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. Any such adverse deviations from our earlier guidance due to unforeseen changes in the economy may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of our business depends to a large degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets in the U.S., the U.K. and around the world. Any failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information, including any successful 11 Table of Contents challenge to our ownership of our intellectual property or material infringements of our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our manufacturing is based in China, where product piracy and counterfeiting activities have been known to be widespread. Although we make significant efforts to prevent piracy and counterfeiting of our products, we can make no assurances that such activities will not occur, as certain of these activities may be beyond our reasonable control. We incur expenses related to policing and other prevention efforts against piracy and counterfeiting, and may lose legitimate sales of our product when and where pirated or counterfeited product has been sold. We do not believe that such activities have materially affected our historical operating results, but can provide no assurance whether heightened piracy and counterfeiting activities may materially affect our future operating results. Risks Related to our Industry Our exports to foreign countries may be limited by applicable tariffs and quotas Most of our products are shipped from our manufacturing centers and warehouses in the U.S., the U.K. and Hong Kong to customers in the U.S. and the U.K. The U.S. and U.K. may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other charges or restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to export products to the U.S. or U.K. at current or increased levels. We cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur, if any, or the type or extent of any financial impact on us that such changes may have in the future. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. Adverse changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business may be negatively affected in the event there are any political changes or turmoil in China or with the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. We may be negatively affected by political, social and economic instability in the PRC or elsewhere. Since substantially all our products are manufactured in China, the political, social and economic environment in the PRC may have an adverse impact on our business. The PRC is controlled by the Communist Party of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization; however, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation or reform money-losing state-owned enterprises, the inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure or the unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts, or a deterioration of the general political, economic or social environment in the PRC, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a deterioration of political relations between the U.S. or the U.K. and the PRC may adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Accordingly, PRC government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support current economic reform programs and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic reform policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof. Any such developments could affect current operations of and property ownership by foreign investors. In addition, our administrative, compliance, sourcing and accounting activities are located in part in Hong Kong. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the general political, social and economic situation in the PRC, Hong Kong, the U.K. and the U.S. Accordingly, we may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs, duties and quotas. As a foreign private issuer, we have limited reporting requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which we also refer to as the Exchange Act, including those prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Also, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to publish financial statements as frequently, as promptly or containing the same information as U.S. companies. As a result, the frequency and scope of information made publicly available may not be equivalent to that of a domestic U.S. issuer. There may not be a liquid market for our ADSs, which may cause our ADSs to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your ADSs. Although historical Corgi’s ADSs have traded on the NASDAQ Global Market since February 1997, the trading volume has been low. We cannot predict at this time if our ADSs will trade more actively in the public market. The absence of a liquid trading market could make it more difficult for you to sell your ADSs and could exert downward pressure on the price of our ADSs. We may fail to meet the maintenance standards for the NASDAQ Global Market. Our ADSs are currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are unable to maintain the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, including with respect to our minimum share price, our ADSs could be delisted from trading on this market. Consequently, selling and buying our securities would be more difficult because of the absence of a regular market for our ADSs, reduced liquidity due to lower trading volume, delays in the timing of transactions, greater difficulty in disposing of securities and obtaining accurate quotations; and possible reduction in security analysts’ and the news media’s coverage of our Company. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our ADSs than might otherwise be obtained, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. If we are a passive foreign investment company, holders of our shares and ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences. U.S. holders of our ADSs may experience unfavorable tax consequences if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for any year during which the U.S. holder owned our ADSs. In general, we would be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of our gross income in the taxable year is passive income, or (2) 50% or more of the average value of our assets in the taxable year produces, or is held for the production of, passive income. For example, if a U.S. holder disposes of an ADS at a gain, and during any year of its holding period we were a PFIC, then such gain would be taxable as ordinary income and not as capital gain and would be subject to additional taxation based on the length of time the U.S. holder held such stock. 13 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to voting of ordinary shares and receiving certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and the Bank of New York. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of their voting rights pertaining to the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs, and the depositary has agreed that it will vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by the depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will vote the ordinary shares. This means that holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our ADSs. As a result, holders of ADSs may not receive distributions made by us. Certain of our shareholders own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are less beneficial to you. As of March 31, 2007, our current executive officers, directors and shareholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding shares (as known to us or based on public filings) collectively beneficially own or control over 75% of our outstanding ADSs (including ownership of warrants and options exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2007). As a result, if our executive officers, directors and these shareholders were all to vote in the same way, they would have the ability to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect the price of our ADSs. 