risk factors and uncertainties which, in management’s opinion, are likely to most directly affect the conclusions of the technical review of Bokoni. Some of the mineralized material classified as a measured and indicated resource has been used in the cash flow analysis. For U.S. mining standards, a full feasibility study would be required, which would require more detailed studies. Additionally, all necessary mining permits would be required in order to classify this part of Bokoni’s mineralized material as a mineral reserve. There can be no assurance that this mineralized material will become classifiable as a reserve and there is no assurance as to the amount, if any, which might ultimately qualify as a reserve or what the grade of such reserve amounts would be. Data is not complete and cost estimates have been developed, in part, based on the expertise of the individuals participating in the preparation of the technical review and on costs at projects believed to be comparable, and not based on firm price quotes. Costs, including design, procurement, construction and on-going operating costs and metal recoveries could be materially different from those contained in the technical review. There can be no assurance that mining can be conducted at the rates and grades assumed in the technical review. There can be no assurance that the infrastructure facilities can be developed on a timely and cost-effective basis. Energy risks include the potential for significant increases in the cost of fuel and electricity, and fluctuation in the availability of electricity. Projected metal prices have been used for the technical review. The prices of these metals are historically volatile, and the Company has no control of or influence on the prices, which are determined in international markets. There can be no assurance that the prices of platinum, palladium, rhodium, gold, copper and nickel will continue at current levels or that they will not decline below the prices assumed in the technical review. Prices for these commodities have been below the price ranges assumed in the technical report at times during the past ten years, and for extended periods of time. The expansion projects described herein will require major financing; probably a combination of debt and equity financing. There can be no assurance that debt and/or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. A significant increase in costs of capital could materially adversely affect the value and feasibility of constructing the expansions. Other general risks include those ordinary to large construction projects, including the general uncertainties inherent in engineering and construction cost, the need to comply with generally increasing environmental obligations, and accommodation of local and community concerns. The economics are sensitive to the currency exchange rates, which have been subject to large fluctuations in the last several years. See also Item 3.D. “Risk factors”. 4 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS Certain terms used in this Annual Report are defined as follows: Anglo Platinum Anglo Platinum Limited, a public company incorporated under the laws of South Africa. Anooraq Shareholders Agreement The shareholders agreement between Pelawan, Anooraq, the Pelawan Trust and Plateau, dated as of June 12, 2009, which has replaced the Pelawan RTO Share Exchange Agreement, the Pelawan RTO Shareholders Agreement and the settlement agreement between the Company and Pelawan, dated as of December 28, 2006, as of July 1, 2009, the effective date of the Bokoni Transaction. BEE Black Economic Empowerment, as envisaged pursuant to the Mineral Development Act and related legislation and guidelines, being a strategy aimed at substantially increasing participation by HDPs at all levels in the economy of South Africa. BEE is aimed at redressing the imbalances of the past caused by the Apartheid system in South Africa, by seeking to substantially and equitably increase the ownership and management of South Africa’s resources by the majority of its citizens and so ensure broader and more meaningful participation in the economy by HDPs. Boikgantsho Project The Boikgantsho PGM project, located on the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa, on the Drenthe and Witrivier farms, and the northern portion of the Overysel farm. Boikgantsho Boikgantsho Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa which, as of July 1, 2009, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco and owns the respective interest in, and assets relating to the Boikghantsho Project. Bokoni Mine Bokoni Platinum Mine, a PGM mine, located on the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa on the Diamond, Wintersveld, Jagdlust, Middelpunt, Umkoanesstad and Zeekoegat farms, formerly named the Lebowa Platinum Mine. Bokoni Bokoni Platinum Mines (Proprietary) Limited , a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa, formerly named Richtrau No. 177 (Proprietary) Limited and which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco. Bokoni Transaction The transaction pursuant to which the Company acquired an effective 51% interest in Bokoni Mine and an additional 1% interest in the Ga-Phasha Project, Boikgantsho Project and Kwanda Project pursuant to the acquisition by Plateau of 51% of the shares in, and claims on shareholders loan account against, Holdco (which, following implementation of the transaction, now owns 100% of Bokoni, and 100% of Ga-Phasha Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited, Boikgantsho Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited and Kwanda Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited), for an aggregate cash consideration of $385 million (ZAR2.6 billion). The transaction was also previously known as the “Lebowa Transaction”. Bokoni Transaction Agreements The Boikgantsho Sale of Rights Agreement, the Kwanda Sale of Rights Agreement, the Plateau Sale of Boikgantsho Shares and Claims Agreement, the Plateau Sale of Kwanda Shares Agreement, the Plateau Sale of Ga-Phasha Shares and Claims Agreement, the Holdco Sale of Shares Agreement, the Holdco Shareholders Agreement and the Phase 3 Implementation Agreement, and any amendments to such agreements, collectively. Bokoni Group Holdco and all of its subsidiaries. Common Shares Common shares without par value in the capital of the Company. Debt Facility The Senior Debt Facility with Standard Chartered Bank plc, made available to Plateau Resources amounting to $106.4 million (ZAR 750 million), including capitalised interest up to a maximum of three years or $37 million (ZAR 250 million). DMR The Government of South Africa acting through the Minister of Mineral Resources and the Department of Mineral Resources and their respective successors and delegates. Elemental Symbols Pt — Platinum; Pd — Palladium; Au — Gold; Ag — Silver; Cu — Copper; Cr — Chromium; Ni — Nickel; Pb — Lead; Rh — Rhodium; Ru — Ruthenium. 5 Table of Contents EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes. Farm A term commonly used in South Africa to describe the area of a mineral interest. Ga-Phasha Project The Ga-Phasha PGM project, located on the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa, on the Paschaskraal, Klipfontein, Avoca and De Kamp farms. Ga-Phasha /GPM Ga-Phasha Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa which, as of July 1,2009, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco and which owns the Ga-Phasha Project. HDP A “historically disadvantaged person” as contemplated in the Mineral Development Act, being a person who was discriminated against under the Apartheid system, and includes certain trusts and companies in which such persons have interests, as contemplated in the Holdco Shareholders Agreement. HDSI Hunter Dickinson Services Inc., a corporation incorporated under the laws of Canada, which is a related party to Anooraq. Holdco Bokoni Holdings (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa, formerly named Richtrau No. 179 (Proprietary) Limited. Holdco Shareholders Agreement The Shareholders’ Agreement entered into between Plateau, RPM and Holdco, dated March 28, 2008, as amended on May 13, 2009, to govern the relationship between Plateau and RPM as shareholders of Holdco. JIBAR Johannesburg inter-banking borrowing rate. IASB International Accounting Standards Board. ktp Kilo tonnes per month. Kwanda Project The Kwanda PGM Project, located on the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa, on 12 farms. Kwanda Kwanda Platinum Mine (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa which, as of July 1, 2009, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco and owns the Kwanda Project. Lebowa Platinum Mine or LPM The former name of the Bokoni Platinum Mine. May 2009 Technical Report A technical report: Lebowa Platinum Mine Limpopo Province, South Africa, dated May 12, 2009, prepared by Deloitte Mining Advisory Services, which is referenced and is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Mineral Development Act The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002 (South Africa). Mining Charter The Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African mining industry, signed by the DMR, the South African Chamber of Mines and others on October 11, 2002. N1C N1C Resources Inc., a wholy owned subsidiary of Anooraq incorporated on December 2, 1999 under the laws of the Cayman Islands. N2C N2C Resources Inc., a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of Anooraq incorporated on December 2, 1999 under the laws of the Cayman Islands. NYSE Amex NYSE Amex Equities, formerly the American Stock Exchange. OCSF Operating Cash Flow Shortfall Facility. 6 Table of Contents Pelawan Pelawan Investments (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa. Pelawan RTO Share Exchange Agreement The Share Exchange Agreement between Pelawan and Anooraq made as of January 21, 2004 and as amended from time to time. Pelawan RTO Shareholders Agreement The Shareholders Agreement between Pelawan, Anooraq and the Pelawan Trust made as of September 19, 2004. Pelawan Trust The independent South African trust established in accordance with a trust deed dated September 2, 2004, the trustees of which are Andre Visser, Tumelo Motsisi and Asna Chris Harold Motaung. PGM Platinum group metals, comprising platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, osmium and iridium. Plateau Plateau Resources (Proprietary) Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa, being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Anooraq. Platreef Properties The Platreef PGM properties located on the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa, which includes the Kwanda, Boikgantsho and Rietfontein projects. PPRust Potgietersrust Platinum Limited, a private company incorporated under the laws of South Africa, being a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo Platinum. Royalty Act The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Royalty Act, Act No 28 of 2008, in relation to royalties to be levied by the South African state in respect of the transfer of mineral or petroleum resources. RPM Rustenburg Platinum Mines Limited, a public company incorporated under the laws of South Africa, being a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo Platinum. RTO Reverse Take-Over whereby Pelawan acquired a controlling share of Anooraq Resources Corporation pursuant to the Pelawan RTO Share Exchange Agreement. SEDAR System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval. South Africa The Republic of South Africa. TSXV TSX Venture Exchange Inc. Transition date The Company’s transition date for converting to IFRS, which was January 1, 2008. ZAR South African Rand, the currency of South Africa. Geological/Exploration Terms 4E grade The 4E grade is the sum of the grade of Pt, Pd, Rh and Au. Chromitite An igneous rock composed mostly of the mineral chromite and found in ultramafic to mafic layered intrusions. Feldspar A group of abundant rock-forming minerals, the most widespread of any mineral group and constituting 60% of the earth’s crust. Feldspathic Containing feldspar as a principal ingredient. Gabbro Course grained mafic igneous rock. Lithology Rock composition and structure. Mafic Composed of dark ferromagnesian minerals. 7 Table of Contents Mineral Deposit A deposit of mineralization that may or may not be ore. Under SEC rules, a mineral reserves or ore is determined by a full feasibility study, and mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time the reserve determination is made Under Canadian rules, mineral reserves may be determined by a preliminary feasibility study. Mineralized Material A mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support a sufficient tonnage and average grade of metals to warrant further exploration. Such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve until a comprehensive evaluation based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other material factors conclude legal and economic feasibility. Mineralization classified as “inferred”, is a classification that is acceptable under Canadian regulations (see “Resource Category (Classification) Definitions” below) but cannot be used in a feasibility study and is not recognized by the SEC . Norite A coarse-grained plutonic rock in which the chief constituent is basic plagioclase feldspar (labradorite) and the dominant mafic mineral is orthopyroxene (hypersthene). Pyroxenite A medium or coarse-grained rock consisting essentially of pyroxene, a common rock forming mineral. SAMREC Code South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves. Technical Report Means a report prepared and filed in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 on the Company’s profile with the Canadian Security Administrators on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. This document refers to three technical reports: the May 2009 Technical Report entitled “Technical Report: Lebowa Platinum Mine, Limpopo Province, South Africa dated May 12 2009; the October 2007 Technical Report entitled “Technical Report on the Updated Resource Estimates on the Merensky Reef and UG2 Deposits, Ga-Phasha PGM Project, Eastern Limb, Bushveld Complex, Limpopo Province, South Africa dated October 19 2007; and the December 2004 Technical Report entitled “Technical Report Resource Estimate on the Boikgantsho Joint Venture, Eastern Limb, Bushveld Complex, Limpopo Province, South Africa dated December 22, 2004”. Resource Category (Classification) Definitions Mineral Reserve Canadian National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”) defines a “Mineral Reserve” as the economically mineable part of a Measured or Indicated Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, and economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. A Mineral Reserve includes diluting materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Mineral reserves are subdivided in order of decreasing confidence into Probable Mineral Reserves and Proven Mineral Reserves. A Probable Mineral Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proven Mineral Reserve. (1) A “Proven Mineral Reserve” is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified. (2) A “Probable Mineral Reserve” is the economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. Industry Guide 7 — “Description of Property by Issuers Engaged or to be Engaged in Significant Mining Operations” (“Industry Guide 7”) of the SEC defines a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. 8 Table of Contents Mineral Resource NI 43-101 defines a “Mineral Resource” as a concentration or occurrence of diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, or natural solid fossilized organic material including base and precious metals, coal, and industrial minerals in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of decreasing geological confidence, into Measured, Indicated and Inferred categories. An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that applied to an Indicated Mineral Resource. An Indicated Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than an Inferred Mineral Resource but has a lower level of confidence than a Measured Mineral Resource. (1) Measured Mineral Resource. A “Measured Mineral Resource” is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and other physical characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters to support production planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity. (2) Indicated Mineral Resource. An “Indicated Mineral Resource” is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed. Mineralization may be classified as an Indicated Mineral Resource by the qualified person, as such term is defined in NI 43-101 (“QP”), when the nature, quality, quantity and distribution of data are such as to allow confident interpretation of the geological framework and to reasonably assume the continuity of mineralization. An Indicated Mineral Resource estimate is of sufficient quality to support a Preliminary Feasibility Study which can serve as the basis for major development decisions. (3) Inferred Mineral Resource. An “Inferred Mineral Resource” is that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes. Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Mineral Resource as a result of continued exploration. Confidence in the estimate is insufficient to allow the meaningful application of technical and economic parameters or to enable an evaluation of economic viability worthy of public disclosure. Inferred Mineral Resources must be excluded from estimates forming the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. Mineralization or other natural material of economic interest may be classified as a Measured Mineral Resource by the QP when the nature, quality, quantity and distribution of data are such that the tonnage and grade of the mineralization can be estimated to within close limits and that variation from the estimate would not significantly affect potential economic viability. This category requires a high level of confidence in, and understanding of, the geology and controls of the mineral deposit. Industry Guide 7 does not define or recognize resources. As used in this Annual Report, “mineral resources” are as defined in NI 43-101. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors”. 9 Table of Contents Currency and Measurement All currency amounts in this Annual Report are stated in Canadian dollars unless otherwise indicated. See “Item 3 — Key Information”. Conversion of metric units into imperial equivalents is as follows: Metric Units Multiply by Imperial Units hectares 2.471 = acres meters 3.281 = feet kilometers 0.621 = miles (5,280 feet) grams 0.032 = ounces (troy) tonnes 1.102 = tons (short) (2,000 lbs) grams/tonne 0.029 = ounces (troy)/ton 10 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1 IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 2 OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 3 KEY INFORMATION 3.A. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and the audited consolidated financial statements, the accompanying notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below for the years ended as at December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2009 have been derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. Selected consolidated financial data as at and for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been derived from the Company’s previously-published audited consolidated financial statements not included in this document. The selected consolidated financial data as at December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2009 should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to, the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 18. The audited consolidated financial statements from which the following financial data for 2009 and 2008 have been derived were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the IASB. Year ended December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (CAD in thousands) (Except per share info and weighted average shares in issue) Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss information: Revenue 62,628 — Operating loss 39,383 12,066 Loss from continuing operations 39,383 12,066 Net loss 66,584 13,840 Loss attributable to owners of Anooraq 35,532 13,970 Statement of financial position data: Total assets 1,014,215 12,899 Total equity 209,508 (3,603 ) Share capital 71,713 54,948 Per share information (CAD cents) Basic loss per share 12 cents 8 cents Diluted loss per share 12 cents 8 cents Loss from continuing operations per share 12 cents 8 cents Weighted average shares in issue (number): Average shares outstanding — basic 305,971,455 185,775,361 Average shares outstanding — diluted 306,254,039 185,775,361 No dividends have been declared for any periods above. 13 Table of Contents The audited consolidated financial statements from which the following financial data for 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been derived were prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. Year ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (CAD in thousands) (Except per share info and weighted average shares in issue) Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss information: Revenue — — — Operating loss — — — Loss from continuing operations 14,296 4,505 12,304 Net loss 14,296 4,505 12,304 Loss attributable to owners of Anooraq 14,296 4,505 12,304 Statement of financial position data: Total assets 16,953 21,829 13,836 Total equity 4,734 8,976 13,457 Share capital 65,110 55,056 55,032 Per share information (CAD cents) Basic loss per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Diluted loss per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Loss from continuing operations per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Weighted average shares in issue (number): Average shares outstanding — basic 185,208,607 148,220,407 148,220,407 Average shares outstanding — diluted 185,208,607 148,220,407 148,220,407 No dividends have been declared for any periods above. The audited consolidated financial statements from which the following financial data for 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been derived were prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Year ended December 31, December 31, December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (CAD in thousands) (Except per share info and weighted average shares in issue) Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss information: Revenue — — — Operating loss — — — Loss from continuing operations 14,296 4,505 12,304 Net loss 14,296 4,505 12,304 Loss attributable to owners of Anooraq 14,296 4,505 12,304 Statement of financial position data: Total assets 17,227 21,829 13,836 Total equity 4,734 8,976 13,457 Share capital 65,110 55,056 55,032 Per share information (CAD cents) Basic loss per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Diluted loss per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Loss from continuing operations per share 8 cents 3 cents 8 cents Weighted average shares in issue (number): Average shares outstanding — basic 185,208,607 148,220,407 148,220,407 Average shares outstanding — diluted 185,208,607 148,220,407 148,220,407 No dividends have been declared for any periods above. 14 Table of Contents Exchange rate information The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the U.S./CAD dollar exchange rate for the years shown: U.S. dollar per Canadian dollar for the year ended December 31, or the respective month (1)(2)(3) Average High Low 2005 1.21 1.27 1.15 2006 1.13 1.17 1.09 2007 1.08 1.19 0.92 2008 1.06 1.29 0.98 2009 1.15 1.31 1.03 January 2010 1.04 1.07 1.03 February 2010 1.06 1.07 1.04 March 2010 1.02 1.04 1.01 April 2010 1.01 1.02 1.00 May 2010 1.04 1.08 1.01 June 2010 1.04 1.06 1.02 (1) The average exchange rates for each full year are calculated using the average exchange rate on the last day of each month during the period. The average exchange rate for each month is calculated using the average of the daily exchange rates during the period. (2) Based on noon buying rates as published by the Bank of Canada. (3) The average rates for 2010 have been calculated with information up to June 30, 2010. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the CAD/ZAR exchange rate for the years shown: CAD per ZAR for the year ended December 31, or the respective month (1)(2)(3) Average High Low 2005 0.191 0.213 0.175 2006 0.169 0.195 0.142 2007 0.152 0.169 0.142 2008 0.123 0.151 0.110 2009 0.136 0.150 0.120 January 2010 0.140 0.142 0.138 February 2010 0.138 0.142 0.135 March 2010 0.138 0.139 0.136 April 2010 0.137 0.139 0.133 May 2010 0.136 0.139 0.134 June 2010 0.136 0.139 0.134 (1) The average exchange rates for each full year are calculated using the average exchange rate on the last day of each month during the period. The average exchange rate for each month is calculated using the average of the daily exchange rates during the period. (2) Based on noon buying rates as published by the Bank of Canada. (3) The average rates for 2010 have been calculated with information up to June 30, 2010. 3.B. Capitalization and Indebtedness Not applicable. 3.C. Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 3.D. Risk Factors Investment in mining companies such as Anooraq is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. The Company faces risks in executing its business plan and achieving revenues. The following risks are material risks that the Company faces. The Company also faces the risks identified elsewhere in this Annual Report. If any of these risks occur, the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be seriously harmed and, under certain circumstances, the Company may not be able to continue business operations as a going concern. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition to the risks described below, see “Cautionary Note to Readers Concerning Technical Review of Bokoni” for a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties which, in management’s opinion, are likely to most directly affect the conclusions of the technical review of Bokoni. Anooraq has no history of earnings Anooraq has a long history of losses and there can be no assurance that Anooraq will achieve or sustain profitability. Anooraq has not paid any dividends on its shares since incorporation. Anooraq anticipates that it will retain future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of its business. Anooraq does not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of Anooraq’s board of directors after taking into account many factors including Anooraq’s operating results, financial conditions and anticipated cash needs. The Company may not meet its production level and operating cost estimates and, if it does not, its results of operations may be adversely affected Anooraq prepares estimates of future production, cash costs and capital costs of production for particular operations. No assurance can be given that such estimates will be achieved. Failure to achieve production or cost estimates or material increases in costs could have an adverse impact on Anooraq’s future cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Anooraq’s actual production and costs may vary from estimates for a variety of reasons, including: actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics; short-term operating factors relating to the ore reserves, such as the need for sequential development of orebodies and the processing of new or different ore grades; revisions to mine plans; risks and hazards associated with mining; natural phenomena, such as inclement weather conditions, water availability, floods, and earthquakes; and unexpected labor shortages or strikes. Costs of production may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: changing waste-to-ore ratios, ore grade metallurgy, labor costs, the cost of commodities, general inflationary pressures and currency exchange rates. Metal price volatility may render continued commercial production at the Bokoni Mine uneconomic Anooraq’s business is strongly affected by the world market price of PGM. Anooraq currently sells all of its PGM produced to RPM pursuant to a sale of concentrate agreement. PGM prices can be subject to volatile price movements, which can be material and can occur over short periods of time and are affected by numerous factors, all of which are beyond Anooraq’s control. Based on Anooraq’s 2009 PGM production, the approximate sensitivity of its revenue to a 10% increase or decrease in the market PGM price is a $21 million increase or decrease in revenue. Industry factors that may affect PGM prices are: the demand in the automotive sectors; industrial and jewellery demand; central bank lending, sales and purchases of PGM; speculative trading; and costs of and levels of global PGM production by producers of PGM. PGM prices may also be affected by macroeconomic factors, including: expectations of the future rate of inflation; the strength of, and confidence in, the U.S. dollar, the currency in which the price of PGM is generally quoted, and other currencies; interest rates; and global or regional, political or economic uncertainties. In the future, if PGM market prices were to drop and the prices realized by Anooraq on PGM sales were to decrease significantly and remain at such a level for any substantial period, Anooraq’s profitability and cash flows would be negatively affected. Depending on the market price of PGM, Anooraq may determine that it is not economically feasible to continue commercial production at the Bokoni Mine, which would have an adverse impact on Anooraq’s financial performance and results of operations. In such a circumstance, Anooraq may also curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration activities, with the result that depleted reserves are not replaced. 16 Table of Contents Failure to replace depleted reserves will result in declining production levels over the long term The Bokoni Mine is Anooraq’s only producing property. Anooraq must seek to expand the operating areas of the Bokoni Mine and develop other properties to replace reserves depleted by production to maintain production levels over the long term. Reserves also can be replaced by expanding known orebodies, locating new deposits or making acquisitions. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Anooraq’s exploration projects involve many risks and may be unsuccessful. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by expansion, discoveries or acquisitions. The mineral base of Anooraq may decline if reserves are mined without adequate development and replacement, and Anooraq may not be able to sustain production beyond the current life of mine, based on current production rates and development. Delays or under delivery on projects may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain or increase the Company’s present level of production Anooraq’s ability to sustain or increase its present levels of PGM production is dependent on the success of its projects. There are many risks and unknowns inherent in all projects. For example, the economic feasibility of projects is based upon many factors, including: the accuracy of reserve estimates; metallurgical recoveries with respect to PGM and by-products; capital and operating costs of such projects; the future prices of the relevant minerals; and the ability to secure appropriate financing to develop it. Projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, the resolution of various fiscal, tax and royalty matters, the issuance of necessary governmental permits and the acquisition of satisfactory surface or other land rights. It may also be necessary for Anooraq to, among other things, find or generate suitable sources of power and water for a project, ensure that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support the project, and secure appropriate financing to fund these expenditures. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Thus, it is possible that actual costs may increase significantly and economic returns may differ materially from Anooraq’s estimates, that metal prices may decrease significantly, or that Anooraq could fail to obtain the satisfactory resolution of fiscal and tax matters or the governmental approvals necessary for the operation of a project or obtain project financing on acceptable terms and conditions or at all, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing, or at all. It is not unusual in the mining industry for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays and requiring more capital than anticipated. Mineral reserves and resources are only estimates, and there can be no assurance that the estimated reserves and resources are accurate or that the Company will achieve indicated levels of PGM recovery Anooraq’s mineral reserves and mineral resources are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the estimated reserves and resources are accurate or that the indicated level of PGM or any other mineral will be produced. Such estimates are, in large part, based on interpretations of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques. Actual mineralization or formations may be different from those predicted. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible, and during that time the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change. The SEC does not permit United States mining companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose estimates other than mineral reserves. However this Annual Report also contains resource estimates, which are required by NI 43-101. Mineral resource estimates that do not qualify as reserves are based, in many instances, on limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of the conditions between and around drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. No assurance can be given that any part or all of Anooraq’s mineral resources will be converted into reserves. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors”. Market price fluctuations of PGM, as well as increased production and capital costs or reduced recovery rates, may render Anooraq’s proven and probable reserves unprofitable to develop at a particular site or sites for periods of time or may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grade mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for the orderly development of orebodies or the processing of new or different ore grades, may cause mineral reserves to be reduced or Anooraq to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. Estimated reserves may have to be recalculated based on actual production experience. Any of these factors may require Anooraq to reduce its mineral reserves and resources, which could have a negative impact on Anooraq’s financial results. Failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits or government approvals or changes to applicable legislation could also cause Anooraq to reduce its reserves. There is also no assurance that Anooraq will achieve indicated levels of PGM recovery or obtain the prices assumed in determining such reserves. 17 Table of Contents Failure to repay long term borrowings and the level of indebtedness may adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations or to pursue other business opportunities As of March 31, 2010, Anooraq had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $28 million and capital leases and long-term borrowings of approximately $565.8 million. There can be no assurance that Anooraq will be successful in repaying all of its indebtedness. Anooraq’s level of indebtedness could have important consequences for its operations, including: • The Company will need to use a large portion of its cash flow to repay principal and pay interest on its debt, which will reduce the amount of funds available to finance its operations and other business activities; and • The Company’s debt level may limit its ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow money for operations or capital expenditures in the future, or implement its business strategy. Anooraq expects to obtain the funds to pay its operational and capital expenditures in 2010 through its future cash flows from the Bokoni Mine operations as well as available facilities on the OCSF. See “Financing the Bokoni Transaction” in Item 4. Anooraq’s ability to meet its payment obligations will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. Anooraq will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets in which it operates. Anooraq cannot be certain that its existing capital resources and future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to allow it to pay principal and interest on Anooraq’s debt and meet its other obligations. If these amounts are insufficient or if there is a contravention of its debt covenants, Anooraq may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or issue additional equity. The ability of Anooraq to access the bank public debt or equity capital markets on an efficient basis may be constrained by the dislocation in the credit markets, capital and/or liquidity constraints in the banking markets and equity conditions at the time of issuance. Price volatility and the unavailability of other commodities may adversely affect the timing and cost of the Company’s projects The profitability of Anooraq’s business is affected by the market prices of commodities produced as products and by-products at Anooraq’s mines, such as platinum, palladium, rhodium, nickel and certain other base metals, as well as the cost and availability of commodities which are consumed or otherwise used in connection with Anooraq’s operations and projects, including, but not limited to, diesel fuel, natural gas, electricity, water, steel and concrete. Prices of such commodities can be subject to volatile price movements, which can be material and can occur over short periods of time, and are affected by factors that are beyond Anooraq’s control. An increase in the cost, or decrease in the availability, of construction materials such as steel and concrete may affect the timing and cost of Anooraq’s projects. If Anooraq’s proceeds from the sale of by-products were to decrease significantly, or the costs of certain commodities consumed or otherwise used in connection with Anooraq’s operations and projects were to increase, or their availability to decrease significantly and remain at such levels for a substantial period of time, Anooraq may determine that it is not economically feasible to continue commercial production at some or all of Anooraq’s operations or the development of some or all of Anooraq’s current projects, which could have an adverse impact on Anooraq. There is no certainty that the Company’s future exploration and development activities will be commercially successful The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish mineral reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs planned by Anooraq and its joint venture partners will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is dependent upon a number of factors. These include deposit attributes such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current and future metal prices (which can be cyclical), and government regulations, including those relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and necessary supplies and environmental protection. The complete effect of these factors, either alone or in combination, cannot be entirely predicted, and their impact may result in Anooraq not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s current exploration projects may not result in discoveries of commercial recoverable quantities of ore The Platreef Project and the Ga-Phasha Project are in the exploration as opposed to the development stage and have no known body of economic mineralization. The known mineralization at these projects has not been determined to be ore. There can be no assurance that commercially mineable ore bodies exist. There is no certainty that any expenditure made in the exploration of the Company’s undeveloped mineral properties will result in discoveries of commercially recoverable quantities of ore. Such assurance will require completion of final comprehensive feasibility studies and, possibly, further associated exploration and other work that concludes a potential mine at each of these projects is likely to be economic. In order to carry out exploration and development programs of any economic ore body and place it into commercial production, the Company must raise substantial additional funding. Deterioration of economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition The profitability of Anooraq’s operations is significantly affected by changes in the market price of the metals it mines or explores for. The prices of PGM are volatile, and are affected by numerous factors beyond Anooraq’s control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, world supply of PGM and stability of exchange rates can all cause fluctuations in these prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political developments. The prices of PGM have fluctuated in recent years, and future significant price declines could cause commercial production to be uneconomic and may have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with current and future governmental regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition The exploration and mining activities of Anooraq are subject to various South African national, provincial and local laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards and occupational health, mine safety, toxic substance and other matters. Exploration activities and mining are also subject to various national, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws mandate, among other things, the maintenance of certain air and water quality standards, and land reclamation. These laws also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. No assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail production or development. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of exploration, mining and milling or more stringent implementation thereof could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business, results of operation and financial condition. The Company is required to obtain and renew governmental permits in order to conduct mining operations, which is often a costly and time-consuming process The Company’s current and anticipated future operations, including continued production at the Bokoni Mine, and further exploration or the development of new projects, require permits from various governmental authorities. Obtaining or renewing governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent upon many variables not within the Company’s control, including the interpretation of requirements implemented by the applicable permitting authority. The Company may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to its operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed the Company’s expectations. Failure to comply with permits may disrupt the Company’s operations. Any unexpected delays or costs associated with the permitting process could delay the development or impede the operation of a mine, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s revenues and future growth. A shortage of electricity and high electricity prices could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (“NERSA”) has released its decision on Eskom’s (South African national power supplier) tariff increase applications. The effect of this decision is that power tariff increases in South Africa will be effected over a three year period as follows: 2010/2011: 24.8 % 2011/2012: 25.1 % 2012/2013: 25.9 % The net effect of this decision is that power input costs at mining operations in South Africa will increase by approximately 100% over the next three years. The Bokoni Mine operations are currently mining at relatively shallow depths with no major refrigeration requirements expected for the next 30 years of mining. Power costs currently comprise between 5% and 8% (depending on summer or winter tariffs applied) of total operating costs at the mine operations. Accordingly, the recently announced power rate increases will increase operating costs by between 5% and 8% (seasonal adjustments) over the next three years. The Bokoni Mine continues to focus efforts on power usage reduction initiatives as part of the efficiency improvement initiatives currently being implemented at the operations. 19 Table of Contents The Bokoni Mine is also dependent on power generated by Eskom. In the past number of years, there has been an increase in the number of electricity supply interruptions, resulting mainly from recent economic growth exceeding expectations and delayed investments in infrastructure upgrades and development. Although Eskom has announced a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience power supply interruptions. The above increases in prices and possible supply interruptions may have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes to the regulatory environment have been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry in South Africa The mining industry in South Africa, where the Company’s projects are located, is subject to extensive government regulation. The regulatory environment is developing, lacks clarity in a number of areas and is subject to interpretation, review and amendment as the mining industry is further developed and liberalized. In addition, the regulatory process entails a public comment process, which makes the outcome of the legislation uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatory process. A number of significant matters have not been finalized, including the legislation dealing with beneficiation. Mineral beneficiation has become one of the major drivers in advancing the empowerment of historically disadvantaged communities in South Africa. It also presents opportunities for development of new entrepreneurs in large and small mining industries. Anooraq cannot predict the outcome or timing of any amendments or modifications to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release of new regulations or their impact on its business. In October 2002, the South African government enacted the Mineral Development Act that deals with the state’s policy towards the future of ownership of minerals rights and the procedures for conducting mining transactions in South Africa. The Mineral Development Act is an ambitious statute with wide-ranging objectives, including sustainable development and the promotion of equitable access to South Africa’s mineral wealth by the inclusion of HDP into the industry. The Mineral Development Act came into effect in May 2004. The South African government issues permits and licenses for prospecting and mining rights to applicants using a “scorecard” approach. Applicants need to demonstrate their eligibility for consideration based upon the number of credits accumulated in terms of quantifiable ownership transformation criteria, such as employment equity and human resource development. Future amendments to, and interpretations of, the economic empowerment initiatives by the South African Government and the South African courts could adversely affect the business of Anooraq and its operations and financial condition. Disputes or disagreements with third parties who jointly own many of the Company’s assets could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Anooraq holds the bulk of its assets through Plateau’s 51% ownership of Holdco, the remaining 49% being held by Anglo Platinum. Plateau’s interests in these projects are subject to the risks normally associated with the joint ownership of operations. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on Plateau’s profitability or the viability of its interests held through Holdco, which could have a material adverse impact on Anooraq’s future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition: (i) disagreement with Anglo Platinum on how to proceed with exploration programs and how to develop and operate mines efficiently; (ii) inability of Anooraq and Anglo Platinum to meet their obligations in respect of jointly owned properties; and (iii) litigation between Anooraq and Anglo Platinum regarding jointly owned property. Future disputes and disagreements with business partners could adversely affect the business of Anooraq and its operations and financial condition. There are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. Any defects in such title could cause the Company to lose its rights in mineral properties and jeopardize its operations. Title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. The mineral properties may be subject to previous unregistered agreements or transfers, and title may be affected by undetected defects or changes in mineral tenure laws. The Company’s mineral interests consist of mineral claims, which have not been surveyed, and therefore, the precise area and location of such claims or rights may be in doubt. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including the failure to pay taxes or to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the mineral rights are held by Anooraq. 20 Table of Contents The risks associated with mining and processing pose operational and environmental risks that may not be covered by insurance and may increase costs The mining industry is subject to significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, labor force disruptions, civil strife, unavailability of materials and equipment, weather conditions, pit wall failures, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, seismic activity, water conditions and precious metal losses, most of which are beyond Anooraq’s control. These risks and hazards could result in: damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or producing facilities; personal injury or death; environmental damage; delays in mining; and monetary losses and possible legal liability. As a result, production may fall below historic or estimated levels and Anooraq may incur significant costs or experience significant delays that could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s financial performance, liquidity and results of operation. No assurance can be given that the Company’s insurance will cover such risks and hazards, that the insurance will continue to be available, that it will be available at economically feasible premiums, or that Anooraq will maintain such insurance. In addition, Anooraq does not have coverage for certain environmental losses and other risks, as such coverage cannot be purchased at a commercially reasonable cost. The lack of, or insufficiency of, insurance coverage could adversely affect Anooraq’s cash flow and overall profitability. The Company’s property interests and operations are subject to political risks and uncertainties associated with investment in a foreign country South Africa has recently undergone major constitutional changes to effect majority rule, and affecting mineral title. Accordingly, all laws may be considered relatively new, resulting in risks such as possible misinterpretation of new laws, unilateral modification of mining or exploration rights, operating restrictions, increased taxes, environmental regulation, mine safety and other risks arising out of a new sovereignty over mining, any or all of which could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq. Anooraq’s operations may also be affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, terrorism, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and inflation. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in South Africa may adversely affect Anooraq’s operations or likelihood of future profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The political situation in South Africa introduces a certain degree of risk with respect to Anooraq’s activities. The Government of South Africa exercises control over such matters as exploration and mining licensing, permitting, exporting and taxation, which may adversely impact on Anooraq’s ability to carry out exploration, development and mining activities. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure, could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions outside the United States against the Company or its directors and officers may be difficult The Company is a Canadian corporation, with its principal place of business in South Africa. A majority of the Company’s directors and officers and some or all of the experts named in this Annual Report are not residents of the United States and substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of a majority of the Company’s directors and officers and the experts named in this Annual Report are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors or officers or such experts who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Investors should not assume that courts outside of the United States (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against the Company or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against the Company or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or any such state securities or “blue sky” laws. The Company faces intense competition in the mining industry The mineral exploration and mining business is competitive in all of its phases. Anooraq competes with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than Anooraq, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Anooraq’s ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on its ability to develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration. There is no assurance that Anooraq will continue to be able to compete successfully with its competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. 21 Table of Contents The Company is subject to extensive environmental legislation and the costs of complying with these applicable laws and regulations may be significant Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There can be no assurance that future changes to environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Anooraq’s operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which Anooraq holds interests which are unknown to Anooraq at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Furthermore, compliance with environmental reclamation, closure and other requirements may involve significant costs and other liabilities. In particular, Anooraq’s operations and exploration activities are subject to South African national and provincial laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. The loss of key personnel and workforce unavailability could harm the Company’s mining operations and projects Anooraq is dependent on a relatively small number of key employees (such as the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer), the loss of any of whom could have an adverse effect on Anooraq. The Company also does not maintain any “key person” insurance. HIV/AIDS is prevalent in Southern Africa. Employees or contractors of the Company may have or could contract this potentially deadly virus. There has been a steady emigration of skilled personnel from Southern Africa in recent years. Generally, the prevalence of HIV/AIDS could cause lost employee man hours and the emigration of skilled employees could adversely affect Anooraq’s ability to retain its employees. Anooraq is dependent on a workforce which is heavily unionised with approximately 95% of the workforce belonging to three competing unions. This poses a risk in that union disputes may give rise to industrial action and work stoppages from time to time. Communication and negotiating forums have been established with all unions participating therein. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the United States dollar may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results Anooraq conducts operations in currencies other than United States or Canadian dollars. Of particular significance is the fact that Anooraq’s operations in South Africa are almost entirely paid for in ZAR, which has historically devalued against the United States dollar as well as the Canadian dollar, but which recently has shown unexpected and substantial strength against most major world currencies, including the United States dollar and the Canadian dollar. The strength in the ZAR, if it continues, will negatively impact the potential profitability of Anooraq’s mining operations. The price of PGM is denominated in United States dollars and, accordingly, Anooraq’s revenues, if any, are linked to the United States dollars. In order to earn or maintain property interests, certain of Anooraq’s payments are to be made in ZAR. As a result, fluctuations in the United States dollar against the ZAR could have a material adverse effect on Anooraq’s financial results, which are reported in Canadian dollars. Restrictions on the Company’s ability to transfer assets to or from its foreign subsidiaries may restrict its ability to fund its operations efficiently Anooraq conducts operations through foreign subsidiaries, and substantially all of its assets are held in such entities. Accordingly, any limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between the parent corporation and such entities, or among such entities, could restrict Anooraq’s ability to fund its operations efficiently. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations may exist in the future, could have an adverse impact upon Anooraq’s valuation and stock price, despite the South African Reserve Bank introducing various measures in recent years to relax the exchange controls in South Africa to entice foreign investment in the country. 22 Table of Contents Anooraq’s share price is volatile The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource company like Anooraq, is affected by many variables not directly related to the mining and exploration success of Anooraq, including the market for junior resource stocks, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares suggests Anooraq’s shares will continue to be volatile. The possible failure to realize anticipated benefits of the Bokoni Transaction As a result of the completion of the Bokoni Transaction, the Company is in the process of realizing its goal of becoming a significant PGM producer. Achieving the benefits of this and future acquisitions depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations, procedures and personnel in a timely and efficient manner, as well as the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses and operations with those of the Company. The integration of acquired businesses requires the dedication of substantial management effort, time and resources, which may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during this process. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees and the disruption of ongoing business, customer and employee relationships that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of these and future acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents 