ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to refinance our credit facilities on satisfactory terms Our revolving credit facility and term loan mature on January 20, 2010 and the current credit markets are very limited and restrictive. Our failure to extend the maturity or to refinance our revolving credit facility and term loan with our existing lenders or others on satisfactory terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be able to refinance only a portion of our revolving credit facility and term loan, necessitating the issuance of subordinated debt, preferred stock or common stock, or some combination of such securities. Such securities may include interest or dividends, voting rights or other dilutive effects to our existing shareholders. We are impacted by general economic conditions Our net revenue depends primarily on revenue generated by the affiliated practices. We estimate approximately 85% of the patients of our affiliated practices have dental insurance, and demand for dental care is heavily influenced by dental insurance. In general, dental insurance covers 100% of preventative care, only 80% of basic restorative procedures and 50% of more extensive restorative procedures. In addition, dental insurance often caps 15 Table of Contents benefits at an annual maximum of $1,000 to $1,500. As a result, patients, with or without dental insurance, are financially responsible for a considerable portion of their dental expenditures. With the deteriorating economic conditions initially emanating from consumer indebtedness, consumer spending patterns have changed. Our affiliated practices have observed patients either delaying care or, for those patients with dental insurance, opting for dental procedures that are largely covered by insurance. As are result, revenue growth rates of the affiliated practices have decreased and revenue mix has shifted towards lower cost and lower profitability dental procedures. The effect to us is lower net revenue and lower profit margins. We believe economic conditions will adversely impact us during 2009, although we are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current adverse economic conditions or the severity of the effect of those conditions on our business and results of operations. We also believe the current economic conditions will not lessen the dental care needs of patients and therefore will not impact long term trends of the dental care industry. We are dependent on the performance of the affiliated practices for our net revenue Our net revenue depends primarily on revenue generated by the affiliated practices. We do not employ dentists, except for Arizona’s Tooth Doctor for Kids, and we do not control the clinical decisions of any of the affiliated practices. There can be no assurance that the affiliated practices will maintain successful operations or that any of the key members of a particular affiliated practice will continue practicing with that practice. Availability of dentists, hygienists or dental assistants could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent permitted by state law, each affiliated practice has entered into non-competition agreements and other restrictive covenants with dentists under their employ and we have similar restrictive covenants with Tooth Doctor’s dentists. There can be no assurance that these restrictive covenants will remain in effect in all cases, are or will be sufficient to protect the interests of the affiliated practices or that a court will enforce such agreements. Any material loss of revenue by an affiliated practice, whether due to the loss of existing dentists or the inability to recruit new ones, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the service agreements we have entered into with each of the affiliated practices, except for Tooth Doctor, for substantially all of our revenue. Revenue generated from our service agreements with Metro Dentalcare P.L.C., the affiliated dental practice at Metro Dentalcare, and with Wisconsin Dental Group, S.C., the affiliated practice at Forward Dental, represented 20% and 12%, respectively of our consolidated net revenue in 2008. The termination of either of these service agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our net revenue may be adversely affected by third-party payor cost containment efforts A significant portion of the payments for dental care that is received by the affiliated practices is paid or reimbursed under insurance programs with third-party payors. Third-party payors are continually negotiating the fees charged for dental care, with a goal of containing reimbursement and utilization rates. Loss of revenue by the affiliated practices caused by third-party payor cost containment efforts or an inability to negotiate satisfactory reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some third-party payor contracts are capitated arrangements. Under such contracts, the affiliated practice receives a monthly payment based on the number of members for which they provide care and generally receives a co-payment from the patient at the time care is provided. Such payment methods shift a portion of the risk of providing care from the third-party payors to the affiliated practice. To the extent that patients covered by such contracts require more frequent or extensive care than is anticipated, there may be a shortfall between the capitated payments received by the affiliated practice and the costs incurred to provide such care. Unfavorable utilization under these contracts, as well as termination of such contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our net revenue at Tooth Doctor and three other affiliated practices may be adversely affected by changes in state Medicaid programs Tooth Doctor is largely dependent upon reimbursements under Arizona’s Medicaid program and three of our other affiliated practices are providers under various state Medicaid programs. Changes in those programs affecting provider eligibility, reimbursement rates or specific dental procedures eligible for reimbursement, or our affiliated practices failure to maintain its authorization as a provider under these programs, or to comply with applicable state and federal law or its contracts with the payors who administer claims and make payments under these programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Determinations by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our operations The dental industry and dental practices are highly regulated at the state and federal levels, as described in “Item 1. Business-Government Regulation.” Many of these laws and regulations vary widely by state. In addition, these laws and regulations are enforced by federal and state regulatory authorities with broad discretion, and our agreements may be subject to review by these authorities from time to time. For example, regulatory authorities in some states in which we operate have obtained a copy of our service agreement for review in the past, and in the future such reviews could result in changes to our service agreements. We do not, and do not intend to, control the practice of dentistry by the affiliated practices or their compliance with the regulatory requirements directly applicable to dentists or the practice of dentistry. However, there can be no assurance that any review of our business relationships, including our relationship with the affiliated practices, by courts or other regulatory authorities, will not result in determinations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in the laws and regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operations Similarly, there can be no assurance that the laws and regulatory environment will not change to restrict or limit the enforceability of our service agreements. The laws and regulations of some states in which we currently operate or may seek to expand may require us to change our contractual relationships with dental group practices in a manner that may restrict our operations in those states or may prevent us from affiliating with dental group practices or providing comprehensive business services to dental group practices in those states, or may require us to restructure our current or future operations. For example, a bill recently introduced in the Arizona legislature would impose additional specific reporting and other obligations on business entities, such as us, who own dental practices, and there have been efforts in the past to enact legislation which would have restricted our ability to own dental practices in that state. There can be no assurance that similar legislation will not be enacted in the future. Additionally, the Arizona Board of Dentistry has approved changes to certain sedation rules, and those proposed changes were sent to the Governor’s Regulatory Review Counsel for review. Those changes, if ultimately implemented, or other changes to these rules could adversely affect Tooth Doctor. Our future affiliations or acquisitions may not be completed on acceptable terms or successfully integrated Our strategy includes expansion through affiliations with dental group practices in new and existing states and the expansion of such affiliated practices. Affiliations involve numerous risks, including failure to retain key personnel and contracts of the affiliated practices and the inability to work successfully with us as a business partner. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete additional affiliations on acceptable terms and conditions or that we will be able to serve successfully as a business partner to additional practices, and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we entered into agreements to amend our revolving credit agreement and our term loan effective October 24, 2008 which limit amounts which can be borrowed to fund affiliations and acquisitions, and as a result the number of new affiliations and acquisitions over the next twelve months will be at levels lower than we achieved in recent years. We may not realize the expected value of our goodwill and intangible assets A significant portion of our total assets is represented by goodwill and intangible assets, with the amount expected to increase with future affiliations. In addition, the amortization expense related to definite lived 17 Table of Contents intangible assets will increase in the future as a result of additional intangible assets recorded in connection with new affiliations. Management performs an impairment test on goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually or when facts and circumstances exist which would suggest that the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset is impaired. An impairment test on goodwill and definite lived intangible assets is performed when facts and circumstances exist which would suggest that the definite lived intangible asset may be impaired, such as loss of key personnel, change in legal factors or competition. Impairment assessment inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. If impairment were determined, we would make the appropriate adjustment to the intangible asset to reduce the asset’s carrying value to fair value. In the event of any sale or liquidation of us or a portion of our assets, there can be no assurance that the value of our intangible assets will be realized. Any future determination requiring the write off of goodwill, indefinite lived intangibles or a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by professional liability claims against the affiliated practices The affiliated practices and/or individual dentists in their employ could be exposed to the risk of professional liability claims, and it is possible that such claims could also be asserted against us. With respect to Tooth Doctor, any such claims would likely be asserted against us. Such claims, if successful, could result in substantial damages that could exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. We are named as an insured under the professional liability insurance policy covering the affiliated practices. In addition, we also require each affiliated practice to indemnify us for actions or omissions related to the delivery of dental care by such affiliated practice. However, a successful professional liability claim against an affiliated practice or us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business Our continued success depends upon the retention of our senior officers who have been instrumental in our success and upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals. The loss of some of our senior officers, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Continued growth and success in our business depends, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 