Risk Factors Investment in mining companies such as Atlatsa is highly speculative and subject to numerous and substantial risks. The Company faces risks in executing its business plan and achieving revenues. The following risks are the known, material risks that the Company faces. If any of these risks occur, the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be seriously harmed and, under certain circumstances, the Company may not be able to continue business operations as a going concern. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition to the risks described below, see “Cautionary Note to Readers Concerning Technical Review of Bokoni Mine, Ga-Phasha Project and Boikgantsho Project” for a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties which, in management’s opinion, are likely to most directly affect the conclusions of the technical review of each of the Bokoni Mine, the Ga-Phasha Project and the Boikgantsho Project. Industry Risks Bokoni Mine’s operations and profits have been and may be adversely affected by union activity and new and existing labor laws There has been an increase in union activity in South Africa and, in recent years, there have been new labor laws introduced or amendments to existing labor laws that impose additional obligations or grant additional rights to workers, thereby increasing compliance and other costs. In fiscal 2012, labor unrest had a material adverse impact on Bokoni Mine’s operations, production and financial performance. The occurrence of any such events in the future could have further negative impacts upon financial performance and condition. Greater union activity, including the entry of rival unions, has resulted in more frequent industrial disputes, including violent protests and clashes with police authorities, and has impacted labor negotiations. In the second half of fiscal 2012, there was heightened labor unrest in the South African Mining industry. A number of unions in various industries have threathened to or have recently gone on strike, causing work stoppages and production losses. As a result, on September 27, 2012, South Africa’s soverign debt credit rating, along with the credit ratings of a number of the country’s leading mining companies was downgraded. In the event that Bokoni Mines experiences strikes or work stoppages, delays, sabotage, go-slow actions, lower productivity levels than envisaged or any other industrial relations related interruptions or increased employment related costs due to union or employee activity, these may have a material adverse effect on it business, production levels, production targets, results of operations, financial condition and reputation and future prospects. In addition lower levels of mining activity can have a longer term impact on production levels and operating costs, particularly since mining conditions can deteriorate during extended periods without production. See “Illegal Strike Action at Bokoni Mine”. Cost of compliance with, or changes in, current and future governmental regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition The exploration and mining activities of Atlatsa are subject to various South African national, provincial and local laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards and occupational health, mine safety, toxic substance and other matters. Exploration activities and mining are also subject to various national, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws mandate, among other things, the maintenance of certain air and water quality standards, and land reclamation. These laws also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. No assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail production or development. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of exploration, mining and milling or more stringent implementation thereof could have a material adverse effect on Atlatsa’s business, results of operation and financial condition. Metal price volatility may render continued commercial production at the Bokoni Mine uneconomic Atlatsa’s business is strongly affected by the world market price of PGM. PGM prices can be subject to volatile price movements, which can be material and can occur over short periods of time and are affected by numerous factors, all of which are beyond Atlatsa’s control. Industry factors that may affect PGM prices are as follows: the demand in the automotive sectors; industrial and jewellery demand; central bank lending, sales and purchases of PGM; speculative trading; and costs of and levels 19 Table of Contents of global PGM production by producers of PGM. PGM prices may also be affected by macroeconomic factors, including: expectations of the future rate of inflation; the strength of, and confidence in, the U.S. dollar, the currency in which the price of PGM is generally quoted, and other currencies; interest rates; and global or regional, political or economic uncertainties. In the future, if PGM market prices were to drop and the prices realized by Atlatsa on PGM sales were to decrease significantly and remain at such a level for any substantial period, Atlatsa’s profitability and cash flows would be negatively affected. Depending on the market price of PGM, Atlatsa may determine that it is not economically feasible to continue commercial production at the Bokoni Mine, which would have an adverse impact on Atlatsa’s financial performance and results of operations. In such a circumstance, Atlatsa may also curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration activities, with the result that depleted reserves are not replaced. Price volatility and the unavailability of other commodities may adversely affect the timing and cost of the Company’s projects The profitability of Atlatsa’s business is affected by the market prices of commodities produced as products and by-products at Atlatsa’s mines, such as platinum, palladium, rhodium, gold, nickel and certain other base metals, as well as the cost and availability of commodities which are consumed or otherwise used in connection with Atlatsa’s operations and projects, including, but not limited to, diesel fuel, natural gas, electricity, water, steel and concrete. Prices of such commodities can be subject to volatile price movements, which can be material and can occur over short periods of time, and are affected by factors that are beyond Atlatsa’s control. An increase in the cost, or decrease in the availability, of construction materials such as steel and concrete may affect the timing and cost of Atlatsa’s projects. If Atlatsa’s proceeds from the sale of by-products were to decrease significantly, or the costs of certain commodities consumed or otherwise used in connection with Atlatsa’s operations and projects were to increase, or their availability to decrease significantly and remain at such levels for a substantial period of time, Atlatsa may determine that it is not economically feasible to continue commercial production at some or all of Atlatsa’s operations or the development of some or all of Atlatsa’s current projects, which could have an adverse impact on Atlatsa. The Company is required to obtain and renew governmental permits in order to conduct mining operations, which is often a costly and time-consuming process The Company’s current and anticipated future operations, including continued production at the Bokoni Mine, and further exploration or the development of new projects, require permits from various governmental authorities. Obtaining or renewing governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process. The duration and success of permitting efforts are contingent upon many variables not within the Company’s control, including the interpretation of requirements implemented by the applicable permitting authority. The Company may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to its operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed the Company’s expectations. Failure to comply with permits may disrupt the Company’s operations. Any unexpected delays or costs associated with the permitting process could delay the development or impede the operation of a mine, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s revenues and future growth. A shortage of electricity and high electricity prices could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (“NERSA”) revised Eskom’s (South African national power supplier) power tariff increase during February 2013. The effect of its revision is that power tariff increases in South Africa will be increased as follows: 2013 - 2018: 8% The Bokoni Mine operations are currently mining at relatively shallow depths with no major refrigeration requirements expected for the next 30 years of mining. Power costs currently comprise approximately 4% (varying summer and winter tariffs) of total operating costs at the mine operations. The Bokoni Mine continues to focus efforts on power usage reduction initiatives as part of the efficiency improvement initiatives currently being implemented at the operations. The Bokoni Mine is also dependent on power generated by Eskom. In the past number of years, there has been an increase in the number of electricity supply interruptions, resulting mainly from recent economic growth exceeding expectations and delayed investments in infrastructure upgrades and development. Although Eskom has announced a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience power supply interruptions. The above increases in prices and possible supply interruptions may have a material adverse effect on Atlatsa’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Deterioration of economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition The prices of PGM are volatile, and are affected by numerous economic factors beyond Atlatsa’s control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, world supply of PGM and stability of exchange rates can all cause fluctuations in these prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political developments. The prices of PGM have fluctuated in recent years, and future significant price declines could cause commercial production to be uneconomic and may have a material adverse effect on Atlatsa’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes to the regulatory environment have been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry in South Africa The mining industry in South Africa, where the Company’s projects are located, is subject to extensive government regulation. The regulatory environment is developing, lacks clarity in a number of areas and is subject to interpretation, review and amendment as the mining industry is further developed and liberalized. In addition, the regulatory process entails a public comment process, which makes the outcome of the legislation uncertain and may cause delays in the regulatory process. A number of significant matters have not been finalized, including the legislation dealing with beneficiation. Mineral beneficiation has become one of the major drivers in advancing the empowerment of historically disadvantaged communities in South Africa. It also presents opportunities for development of new entrepreneurs in large and small mining industries. Atlatsa cannot predict the outcome or timing of any amendments or modifications to applicable regulations or the interpretation thereof, the release of new regulations or their impact on its business. In October 2002, the South African government enacted the Mineral Development Act that deals with the state’s policy towards the future of ownership of minerals rights and the procedures for conducting mining transactions in South Africa. The Mineral Development Act is an ambitious statute with wide-ranging objectives, including sustainable development and the promotion of equitable access to South Africa’s mineral wealth by the inclusion of HDP into the industry. The Mineral Development Act came into effect in May 2004. In December 2012, proposed revisions were made to the Mineral Development Act and the Company is currently in the process of evaluating any potential impact on its business. The South African government issues permits and licences for prospecting and mining rights to applicants using a “scorecard” approach. Applicants need to demonstrate their eligibility for consideration based upon the number of credits accumulated in terms of quantifiable ownership transformation criteria, such as employment equity and human resource development. Future amendments to, and interpretations of, the economic empowerment initiatives by the South African Government and the South African courts could adversely affect the business of Atlatsa and its operations and financial condition. The risks associated with mining and processing pose operational and environmental risks that may not be covered by insurance and may increase costs The mining industry is subject to significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, labor force disruptions, civil strife, unavailability of materials and equipment, weather conditions, pit wall failures, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, seismic activity, water conditions and precious metal losses, most of which are beyond Atlatsa’s control. These risks and hazards could result in the following: damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or producing facilities; personal injury or death; environmental damage; delays in mining; and monetary losses and possible legal liability. As a result, production may fall below historic or estimated levels and Atlatsa may incur significant costs or experience significant delays that could have a material adverse effect on Atlatsa’s financial performance, liquidity and results of operation. No assurance can be given that the Company’s insurance will cover such risks and hazards, that the insurance will continue to be available, that it will be available at economically feasible premiums, or that Atlatsa will maintain such insurance. In addition, Atlatsa does not have coverage for certain environmental losses and other risks, as such coverage cannot be purchased at a commercially reasonable cost. The lack of, or insufficiency of, insurance coverage could adversely affect Atlatsa’s cash flow and overall profitability. The Company’s property interests and operations are subject to political risks and uncertainties associated with investment in a foreign country South Africa has recently undergone major constitutional changes to effect majority rule, and affecting mineral title. Accordingly, all laws may be considered relatively new, resulting in risks such as possible misinterpretation of new laws, unilateral modification of mining or exploration rights, operating restrictions, increased taxes and royalties, environmental 21 Table of Contents regulation, mine safety and other risks arising out of a new sovereignty over mining, any or all of which could have an adverse impact upon Atlatsa. Atlatsa’s operations may also be affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, terrorism, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and inflation. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in South Africa may adversely affect Atlatsa’s operations or likelihood of future profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, royalties, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. For instance, the South African government enacted the Royalty Act, which came into operation on March 1, 2010. The Royalty Act imposes a royalty payable to the South African government by businesses based upon financial profits made through the transfer of mineral resources. As the Bokoni Mine produces metal-in-concentrate, a royalty is payable to the South African government between 0.5% and 7% of gross sales of unrefined mineral resources. Although this royalty payable has been taken into consideration with regard to the Company’s current budgeting and other financial planning processes, any future change in the royalties payable could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to extensive environmental legislation and the costs of complying with these applicable laws and regulations may be significant Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There can be no assurance that future changes to environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Atlatsa’s operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which Atlatsa holds interests which are unknown to Atlatsa at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Furthermore, compliance with environmental reclamation, closure and other requirements may involve significant costs and other liabilities. In particular, Atlatsa’s operations and exploration activities are subject to South African national and provincial laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the United States dollar may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results Atlatsa conducts operations in currencies other than United States or Canadian dollars. Of particular significance is the fact that Atlatsa’s operations in South Africa are almost entirely paid for in ZAR, which has historically devalued against the United States dollar as well as the Canadian dollar. The price of PGM is denominated in United States dollars and, accordingly, Atlatsa’s revenues, if any, are linked to the United States dollars. In order to earn or maintain property interests, certain of Atlatsa’s payments are to be made in ZAR. As a result, fluctuations in the United States dollar against the ZAR could have a material adverse effect on Atlatsa’s financial results, which are reported in Canadian dollars. Atlatsa’s share price is volatile The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource company like Atlatsa, is affected by many variables not directly related to the mining and exploration success of Atlatsa, including the market for junior resource stocks, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares suggests Atlatsa’s share price will continue to be volatile. There are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. Any defects in such title could cause the Company to lose its rights in mineral properties and jeopardize its operations. Title to mining properties is subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. The mineral properties may be subject to previous unregistered agreements or transfers, and title may be affected by undetected defects or changes in mineral tenure laws. The Company’s mineral interests consist of mineral claims, which have not been surveyed, and therefore, the precise area and location of such claims or rights may be in doubt. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including the failure to pay taxes or to carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the mineral rights are held by Atlatsa. The Company faces intense competition in the mining industry The mineral exploration and mining business is competitive in all of its phases. Atlatsa competes with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, technical and other resources than Atlatsa, in the 22 Table of Contents search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties and the recruitment and retention of skilled labor. Atlatsa’s ability to acquire properties in the future will depend not only on its ability to develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration. There is no assurance that Atlatsa will continue to be able to compete successfully with its competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects. Further, Atlatsa has encountered increased competition from other mining companies in its efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for skilled personnel at all levels is currently very intense, particularly in the mining processing and engineering disciplines. If Atlatsa is unable to recruit and retain qualified employees, this could result in interruptions or decreases in Atlatsa’s production or exploration activities that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Business Risks Failure to repay long term borrowings and the level of indebtedness may adversely affect the Company as a going concern As of February 28, 2013, Atlatsa had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4.7 million and capital leases and loans and borrowings of approximately $591 million. There can be no assurance that Atlatsa will be successful in repaying all of its indebtedness. Atlatsa’s level of indebtedness could have important consequences for its operations, including: • The Company will need to use a large portion of its cash flow to repay principal and pay interest on its debt, which will reduce the amount of funds available to finance its operations and other business activities; and • The Company’s debt level may limit its ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow money for operations or capital expenditures in the future, or implement its business strategy. Atlatsa expects to obtain the funds to pay its operational and capital expenditures in 2013 through its future cash flows from the Bokoni Mine operations as well as available facilities from the Consolidated Debt Facility which came into effect on September 28, 2012 as a part of Phase One of its Restructure Plan, see “Restructure Plan” under Item 4, as well as Section 1.13 “Financial Instruments and Risk Management - Debt Arrangements” and Section 1.2 under subheading “Restructure Plan” in the Company’s Management Discussion and Analysis for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 (filed on March 28, 2013). The Company is dependent on the current facility in place provided by Anglo Platinum as well as stable production from the Bokoni Mine. The funds available from this facility are expected to meet the Group’s projected cash flow requirements until approximately May 2013. These conditions give rise to a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore that it may be unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. For details regarding the Company’s proposed Restructure Plan, which is intended to address the foregoing issues, see Item 4 “Restructure Plan” and Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. Atlatsa’s ability to meet its payment obligations will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. Atlatsa will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets in which it operates. Atlatsa cannot be certain that its existing capital resources and future cash flows from operations will be sufficient to allow it to pay principal and interest on Atlatsa’s debt and meet its other obligations. If these amounts are insufficient or if there is a contravention of its debt covenants, Atlatsa may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or issue additional equity. Atlatsa has no history of realising net earnings Atlatsa has a long history of losses and there can be no assurance that Atlatsa will achieve or sustain profitability. Atlatsa has not paid any dividends on its shares since incorporation. Atlatsa anticipates that it will retain future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of its business. Atlatsa does not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of Atlatsa’s board of directors after taking into account many factors including Atlatsa’s operating results, financial conditions and anticipated cash needs. Capital structure and ability to raise new equity 23 Table of Contents Atlatsa’s ability to raise new equity in the equity capital markets is subject to the mandatory requirement that Atlatsa Holdings, its majority BEE shareholder, retain a 51% fully diluted shareholding in the Company up until December 31, 2020, as required by covenants given by Atlatsa Holdings and Atlatsa in favour of the SARB and Anglo Platinum; post transaction. The ability of Atlatsa to access the bank public debt or equity capital markets on an efficient basis may be constrained by the dislocation in the credit markets, capital and/or liquidity constraints in the banking markets and equity conditions at the time of issuance. The Company may not meet its production level and operating cost estimates and, if it does not, its results of operations may be adversely affected Atlatsa prepares estimates of future production, cash costs and capital costs of production for particular operations. No assurance can be given that such estimates will be achieved. Failure to achieve production or cost estimates or material increases in costs could have an adverse impact on Atlatsa’s future cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Atlatsa’s actual production and costs may vary from estimates for a variety of reasons, including the following: actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics; short-term operating factors relating to the ore reserves, such as the need for sequential development of orebodies and the processing of new or different ore grades; revisions to mine plans; risks and hazards associated with mining; natural phenomena, such as inclement weather conditions, water availability, floods, and earthquakes; and unexpected labor shortages or strikes. Costs of production may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: changing waste-to-ore ratios, ore grade metallurgy, labor costs, the cost of commodities, safety related stoppages, general inflationary pressures and currency exchange rates. The loss of key personnel and workforce unavailability could harm the Company’s mining operations and projects Atlatsa is dependent on a relatively small number of key employees (such as the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer), the loss of any of whom could have an adverse effect on Atlatsa. The Company also does not maintain any “key person” insurance. HIV/AIDS is prevalent in Southern Africa. Employees or contractors of the Company may have or could contract this potentially deadly virus. There has been a steady emigration of skilled personnel from South Africa in recent years. Generally, the prevalence of HIV/AIDS could cause lost employee man hours and the emigration of skilled employees could adversely affect Atlatsa’s ability to retain its employees. Atlatsa is dependent on a workforce which is heavily unionised with approximately 95% of the workforce belonging to three competing unions. This poses a risk in that union disputes may give rise to industrial action and work stoppages, including strikes, from time to time. Communication and negotiating forums have been established with all unions participating therein. See “Illegal Strike Action at Bokoni Mine” Delays or under delivery on projects may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain or increase the Company’s present level of production Atlatsa’s ability to sustain or increase its present levels of PGM production is dependent on the success of its projects. There are many risks and unknowns inherent in all projects. For example, the economic feasibility of projects is based upon many factors, including the following: the accuracy of reserve estimates; metallurgical recoveries with respect to PGM and by-products; capital and operating costs of such projects; the future prices of the relevant minerals; and the ability to secure appropriate financing for product development. Projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, the resolution of various fiscal, tax and royalty matters, the issuance of necessary governmental permits and the acquisition of satisfactory surface or other land rights. It may also be necessary for Atlatsa to, among other things, find or generate suitable sources of power and water for a project, ensure that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support the project, and secure appropriate financing to fund these expenditures. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Thus, it is possible that actual costs may increase significantly and economic returns may differ materially from Atlatsa’s estimates, that metal prices may decrease significantly, or that Atlatsa could fail to obtain the satisfactory resolution of fiscal and tax matters or the governmental approvals necessary for the operation of a project or obtain project financing on acceptable terms and conditions or at all, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing, or at all. It is not unusual in the mining industry for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays and requiring more capital than anticipated. 24 Table of Contents Mineral reserves and resources are only estimates, and there can be no assurance that the estimated reserves and resources are accurate or that the Company will achieve indicated levels of PGM recovery Atlatsa’s mineral reserves and mineral resources are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the estimated reserves and resources are accurate or that the indicated level of PGM or any other mineral will be produced. Such estimates are, in large part, based on interpretations of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques. Actual mineralization or formations may be different from those predicted. Further, it may take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible, and during that time the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change. The SEC does not permit United States mining companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose estimates other than mineral reserves. However this Annual Report also contains resource estimates, which are required by NI 43-101. Mineral resource estimates that do not qualify as reserves are based, in many instances, on limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of the conditions between and around drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. No assurance can be given that any part or all of Atlatsa’s mineral resources not already qualifying as reserves will be converted into reserves. See “Cautionary Note to Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured and Indicated Resources”, “Cautionary Note to Investors Concerning Estimates of Inferred Resources” and “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors”. Market price fluctuations of PGM, as well as increased production and capital costs or reduced recovery rates, may render Atlatsa’s proven and probable reserves unprofitable to develop at a particular site or sites for periods of time or may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grade mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for the orderly development of orebodies or the processing of new or different ore grades, may cause mineral reserves to be reduced or Atlatsa to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. Estimated reserves may have to be recalculated based on actual production experience. Any of these factors may require Atlatsa to reduce its mineral reserves and resources, which could have a negative impact on Atlatsa’s financial results. Failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits or government approvals or changes to applicable legislation could also cause Atlatsa to reduce its reserves. There is also no assurance that Atlatsa will achieve indicated levels of PGM recovery or obtain the prices assumed in determining such reserves. There is no certainty that the Company’s future exploration and development activities will be commercially successful The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Few properties explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish mineral reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs planned by Atlatsa will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration efforts. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is dependent upon a number of factors. These include deposit attributes such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current and future metal prices (which can be cyclical), and government regulations, including those relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and necessary supplies and environmental protection. The complete effect of these factors, either alone or in combination, cannot be entirely predicted, and their impact may result in Atlatsa not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The Company’s current exploration projects may not result in discoveries of commercial recoverable quantities of ore The Kwanda Project is in the exploration stage as opposed to the development stage and has no known body of economic mineralization. The known mineralization at the Kwanda Project has not been determined to be ore. There can be no assurance that commercially mineable ore bodies exist. There is no certainty that any expenditure made in the exploration of the Company’s undeveloped mineral properties will result in discoveries of commercially recoverable quantities of ore. Such assurance will require completion of final comprehensive feasibility studies and, possibly, further associated exploration and other work that concludes a potential mine at each of these projects is likely to be economic. In order to carry out exploration and development programs of any economic ore body and place it into commercial production, the Company must raise substantial additional funding. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions inside the United States against the Company or its directors and officers may be difficult for U.S. investors The Company is a Canadian corporation, with its principal place of business in South Africa. A majority of the Company’s directors and officers and some or all of the experts named in this Annual Report are not residents of the United States and substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of a majority of the Company’s directors and officers and the experts named in this Annual Report are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors or officers or such experts who are not residents of the United States, or to rely in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under United States securities laws. Investors should not assume that courts outside of the United States (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against the Company or such directors, officers or experts 25 Table of Contents predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against the Company or such directors, officers or experts predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or any such state securities or “blue sky” laws. Failure to replace depleted reserves will result in declining production levels over the long term The Bokoni Mine is Atlatsa’s only producing property. Atlatsa must seek to expand the operating areas of the Bokoni Mine and develop other properties to replace reserves depleted by production to maintain production levels over the long term. Reserves also can be replaced by expanding known orebodies, locating new deposits or making acquisitions. Exploration is highly speculative in nature. Atlatsa’s exploration projects involve many risks and may be unsuccessful. Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. There is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by expansion, discoveries or acquisitions. The mineral base of Atlatsa may decline if reserves are mined without adequate development and replacement, and Atlatsa may not be able to sustain production beyond the current life of mine, based on current production rates and development. The Company is subject to exchange control regulations that may affect its ability to transfer assets to or from its foreign subsidiaries and to fund its operations efficiently South African law provides for exchange control regulations that restrict the export of capital. The exchange control regulations, which are administered by the South African Reserve Bank (“SARB”), regulate transactions involving South African residents, including legal entities, and limit a South African company’s ability to borrow from and repay loans to non-residents and to provide guarantees for the obligations of its affiliates with regard to funds obtained from non-residents. A portion of the Company’s funding for its South African operations consist of loans advanced to its South African subsidiaries from subsidiaries that are non-residents of South Africa. The Company is in compliance with SARB regulations and is therefore not subject to restrictions on the ability of its South African subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Company or to other subsidiaries. In addition, the SARB has introduced various measures in recent years to relax the exchange controls in South Africa to entice foreign investment in the country. However, if more burdensome exchange controls were proposed or adopted by the SARB in the future, or if the Company was unable to comply with existing SARB regulations, such exchange control regulations could restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to repatriate funds needed to effectively finance the Company’s operations. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations could exist in the future, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and share price. Risks relating to indebtedness relating to the Bokoni Transaction Since the completion of the Bokoni Transaction, Atlatsa’s debt owing to Anglo Platinum increased from ZAR3.3 billion ($489 million) in July 2009 to ZAR4.9 billion ($575.1 million) as at December 31, 2012, including capitalized interest during that period. As a result, Atlatsa’s statement of financial position is highly leveraged, which management considers undesirable. In April 2011, Anglo Platinum agreed to assume the Debt Facility then held by SCB in order to facilitate Anglo Platinum providing the Debt Facility to Atlatsa on more favourable terms. The parties have agreed to the key terms of the Restructure Plan, of which Phase One was implemented on September 28, 2012. See Item 4 “Restructure Plan”. Under the proposed Restructure Plan the new restructured debt will only be repayable once the Company generates sufficient free cash flow, however there is no assurance the Restructure Plan will be completed in a timely manner, if at all. The Group incurred a net loss for the year ended 31 December 2012 of $95.6 million (2011: $147.8 million) and as of that date its total assets exceeded its total liabilities by $205.3 million (2011: ($28.1 million)). Anglo Platinum has currently extended financial support until 31 August 2013. These conditions above give rise to a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore that it may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. Failure to complete the proposed Restructure Plan will have an adverse impact on Atlatsa’s statement of financial position and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Risks relating to the Restructure Plan of the Company and the Bokoni Group The Restructuring Transactions are subject to the risk that it may not be completed on the terms negotiated in a timely manner, or at all. The completion of the Restructuring Transactions are subject to a number of conditions precedent, certain of which are outside the control of the Company, including the approval of the TSX-V, NYSE MKT and the JSE and the approval of the Company’s shareholders by the requisite disinterested majority. There can be no certainty, nor can the Company provide any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or, if satisfied, when they will be satisfied in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to complete the Restructuring Transactions would have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of the Company and may negatively impact the Company’s share price. For more information on the Restructuring Transactions, see the discussion in Section 4A under the heading “Restructure Plan”. Disputes or disagreements with third parties who jointly own many of the Company’s assets could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Atlatsa holds the bulk of its assets through Plateau’s 51% ownership of Holdco, the remaining 49% being held by Anglo Platinum. Plateau’s interests in these projects are subject to the risks normally associated with the joint ownership of operations. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on Plateau’s profitability or the viability of its interests held through Holdco, which could have a material adverse impact on Atlatsa’s future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition: (i) disagreement with Anglo Platinum on how to proceed with exploration programs and how to develop and operate mines efficiently; (ii) inability of Atlatsa and Anglo Platinum to meet their obligations in respect of jointly owned properties; and (iii) litigation between Atlatsa and Anglo Platinum regarding jointly owned property. Future disputes and disagreements with business partners could adversely affect the business of Atlatsa and its operations and financial condition. There may be adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if Atlatsa is or becomes a “passive foreign investment company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. If Atlatsa is classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder holds common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules could apply to that person. Atlatsa believes that it was not a PFIC in the 2012 taxable year, but has not made a determination as to its PFIC status for the 2013 taxable year or any future year. U.S. Holders should carefully read “Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules” for more information and consult their independent tax advisors regarding the likelihood and consequences of Atlatsa being treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company is dependent on third parties Atlatsa’s sole revenue stream is currently derived from the sale of PGM metal-in-concentrate produced at the Bokoni Mine. All of this metal-in-concentrate is sold to RPM pursuant to a sale of concentrate agreement. Atlatsa relies on RPM as its sole revenue source, and its success in part depends on RPM performing its obligations under the sale of concentrate agreement. While not anticipated, there can be no assurance that RPM will be able to, or will, perform its obligations under the sale of concentrate agreement in the future. 27 Table of Contents 