ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of these risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, MyVax, and if clinical trials of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we are developing or may develop, do not produce successful clinical trial results, we will be unable to commercialize these products. We have expended most of our time, money and effort in the development of our lead product, MyVax, and we are dependent upon its success. MyVax is still in clinical development, has not yet received regulatory approval and may never be commercialized. To receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory agencies that it satisfies rigorous standards of safety and efficacy in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. Failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, including the following: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing; • safety and efficacy results attained in our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax may be less positive than the results obtained in our previously-completed Phase 2 clinical trials for MyVax; • costs of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • after reviewing test results, we may abandon projects that we might have previously believed to be promising; • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. For example, positive progression-free survival results in small scale Phase 2 clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of the progression-free survival results in larger Phase 3 clinical trials. Moreover, all preliminary clinical data reported from time to time prior to the release of final results of a trial regarding progression-free survival are not fully audited and have been taken from databases that have not been fully reconciled against medical records kept at the clinical sites or that may not include the most current information on patient disease progressions. The DSMB’s recommendation that we continue our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax may not be indicative of the eventual outcome of the Phase 3 clinical trial. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier clinical trials. The data collected from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We do not know whether our existing or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Beyond MyVax in NHL, we have only two other product development programs, which are at significantly earlier stages of development. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial in February 2006 to evaluate MyVax for the treatment of CLL. We are also developing a panel 25 Table of Contents of monoclonal antibodies; however we do not intend to file an IND application to initiate clinical trials before the first half of 2008. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop any product candidate from these development programs. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will prevent receipt of regulatory approval and, ultimately, commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and could subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from obtaining the required approvals to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. MyVax, and any other immunotherapies that we may develop, as well as clinical trials and manufacturing activities, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. In the United States, MyVax cannot be marketed until it is approved by the FDA. Obtaining FDA approval involves the submission of the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of MyVax, among other information. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval, and, even if we are able to do so, the process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of MyVax for many reasons, including: • the FDA may not find that MyVax is sufficiently safe or effective; • FDA officials may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials differently than we do; and • the FDA may not find our manufacturing processes or facilities satisfactory. In addition, patient-specific active immunotherapies are complex, and regulatory agencies lack experience with them, which may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our lead product candidate, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. The FDA has not approved the marketing of any immunotherapeutic drug based on a patient-specific active immunotherapy. Consequently, there is no precedent for the successful commercialization of a patient-specific active idiotype immunotherapeutic drug. In addition, we have not previously filed the marketing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain timely FDA approval, if at all. We will not be able to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, FDA approval would prevent us from commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have focused primarily on conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval for our lead product candidate, MyVax personalized immunotherapy. We have not generated any revenues to date, and we have financed our operations and internal growth through private placements of common and preferred stock, our lines of credit, public offerings of common stock and interest income earned from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1996. Net losses were approximately $48.9 million in 2006, approximately $30.4 million in 2005 and approximately $27.0 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $194.1 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect to incur substantial operating losses for at least the next several years. This is due primarily to the preparations to manufacture MyVax on a commercial scale and the expansion of our clinical trials and research and development programs. We also have substantial lease obligations related to our new manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters that constitute a significant portion of our operating expenses. In addition, subject to regulatory approval of MyVax, we expect to incur sales, marketing and manufacturing expenses, including expenses associated with the equipping and qualification of our new manufacturing facility. In addition, the facility is designed for the production of MyVax for 3,600 patients each year and, if MyVax receives regulatory approval, our facility would require us to purchase and install 26 Table of Contents additional equipment to achieve this level of manufacturing capacity. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing immunotherapeutic drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will achieve or sustain product revenues or become profitable, if ever. We currently have no source of revenue and may never become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, MyVax has not generated any revenue, and we do not know when or if MyVax will generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including: • the possibility of delays in the collection of clinical trial data and the uncertainty of the timing and results of the final analysis of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial; • the uncertainty of results of our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax, or other clinical trials of MyVax; • the uncertainty of obtaining regulatory approval for MyVax, including regulatory approval for our manufacturing facility and process; • the uncertainty related to the completion of the equipping and qualification of our new manufacturing facility, including any purchase and installation of additional equipment for the facility that may be necessary to provide additional manufacturing capacity for the commercialization of MyVax if MyVax receives regulatory approval; • our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of MyVax at acceptable cost levels; and • our ability to successfully market and sell MyVax. We cannot predict when we may begin to realize product revenue. We do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability, if at all, for at least the next few years after we begin generating revenues. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We will need significant additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing patient-specific active immunotherapies, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing facilities and marketing immunotherapies that we may develop is expensive. We will need to raise significant additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development activities; • satisfy lease obligations and operating expenses related to our new manufacturing and corporate headquarter facility; • complete the equipping and qualification of our new manufacturing facility, including the purchase and installation of any additional equipment that may be necessary to achieve additional manufacturing capacity for commercialization of MyVax if MyVax receives regulatory approval; and • commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, if any such immunotherapies receive regulatory approval. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with the interest thereon, will provide us with sufficient financial resources to support our operating plan through at least the end of 2007, which includes the anticipated timing of the completion of our Phase 3 clinical trial in November 2007. However, actual results could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, including the risk factors discussed in this report. We have based this estimate on current assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We expect our cash consumption will continue to 27 Table of Contents increase in 2007, as we anticipate an increase in our expenses related to the equipping and qualification of our new manufacturing facility, the growth of the company and research and development of our monoclonal antibody product candidates, as well as the continued development of MyVax. We will need to raise significant additional funds to commercialize MyVax if MyVax receives regulatory approval for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL. Our manufacturing facility must be qualified and pass a pre-approval inspection from the appropriate regulatory agency prior to any regulatory approval for MyVax. The facility is designed for the production of MyVax for 3,600 patients each year and, if MyVax received regulatory approval, our facility would require the purchase and installation of additional equipment to obtain this level of manufacturing capacity. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the cost and timing of completing the equipping and qualification of our manufacturing facility, including the purchase and installation of additional equipment necessary to achieve additional manufacturing capacity for commercialization of MyVax if MyVax receives regulatory approval; • the cost of operating our manufacturing facility; • the rate of progress and magnitude and cost of our product development efforts and other research and development activities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs of assembling a BLA for MyVax; • the costs of manufacturing MyVax for clinical trials; • the timing and costs related to development of our other product candidates; • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the success, if any, of the commercialization of MyVax, if regulatory approval is obtained; • the pace of expansion of administrative and other infrastructure expenses required to support the growth of the organization; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • our ability to establish collaborative, licensing or other arrangements for the development, sale, marketing or distribution of our product candidates and the terms of those arrangements. Future capital requirements will also depend upon the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, but we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We cannot predict when we may begin to realize product revenue, if at all. We currently anticipate that we will obtain the initial results of the primary analysis, that is, whether a statistically significant increase in progression-free survival is observed in patients receiving MyVax compared to patients receiving the control substance, from our Phase 3 clinical trial by the end of 2007; however, it will take several months following the last patient visit, currently planned for November 2007, to complete all the final analyses of the data from our Phase 3 clinical trial. Until we can generate sufficient product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and any additional 28 Table of Contents debt financing, if available, may require that we pledge our assets, including our intellectual property, or involve restrictive covenants that would restrict our business activities. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of MyVax for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL is being conducted at 34 treatment centers in the United States and Canada and will require long-term follow-up of the 287 patients randomized into the trial. In addition, we initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of MyVax for the treatment of CLL in February 2006. This clinical trial is being conducted at eight sites across the United States. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third-party couriers to transport patient tissue samples and MyVax. If any of our relationships with these contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories or third-party couriers terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. If certain of these third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators or contract laboratories, do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We rely on third parties to provide materials and services needed for the manufacture and testing of MyVax. If these third parties do not adequately provide materials or fail to carry out their contractual duties or obligations, we may not be able to successfully manufacture or commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We currently rely on third parties, such as vendors, suppliers and contract laboratories, to provide materials and services necessary for the manufacture and testing of MyVax. If any of our relationships with these vendors, suppliers or contract laboratories terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. If certain of these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, do not provide materials or services of suitable quality, we may experience delays in obtaining regulatory approval for or successfully commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We have no experience manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies, for the number of patients and at a cost that would enable widespread commercial use. To date, we have manufactured MyVax in quantities necessary to support our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial and Phase 2 clinical trials for MyVax. We have no experience in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies, for the number of patients and at a cost that would support commercial use. In addition, since no other company has manufactured an active immunotherapeutic product for commercial sale, there are no precedents from which we could learn. To commercialize MyVax, we will need to complete equipping of and qualify our new manufacturing facility to meet current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, standards. In addition, our new manufacturing facility is designed for the production of MyVax for 3,600 patients each year and, if MyVax receives regulatory approval, we would need to purchase and install additional equipment to achieve this level of manufacturing capacity. In any build-out, equipping or qualification process, we may encounter problems with, among other things, controlling costs and quality control and assurance. If we cannot manufacture a sufficient supply of MyVax on acceptable terms, the commercialization of MyVax will be delayed or prevented. 29 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapy that we may develop, which could prevent us from completing our clinical trials and delay the commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Manufacturing MyVax is a complex multi-step process that requires us to expend significant time, money and effort on production, recordkeeping and quality control systems to assure that MyVax will meet product specifications and other regulatory requirements. In addition, manufacturing MyVax requires coordination internally among our employees as well as externally with physicians, hospitals and third-party suppliers and carriers. This process involves a number of risks that may lead to failures or delays in manufacturing MyVax, including: • failure to obtain a sufficient supply of key raw materials of suitable quality; • difficulties in manufacturing MyVax for multiple patients simultaneously; • difficulties in obtaining adequate tumor samples from physicians; • difficulties in the timely shipping of tumor samples to us or in the shipping of MyVax to the treating physicians due to errors by third-party carriers, transportation restrictions or other reasons; • difficulties in completing the development and validation of the specialized assays required to ensure the consistency of MyVax; • failure to ensure adequate quality control and assurances in the manufacturing process as we increase the production quantities of MyVax; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax during the shipping process due to improper handling by third-party carriers, hospitals, physicians or us; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax during storage at our facilities; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax stored at clinical and/or future commercial sites due to improper handling or holding by clinicians, hospitals or physicians; • difficulties in qualifying and effectively operating our new manufacturing facility or in procuring or installing any additional equipment that may be necessary to conduct commercial-scale manufacturing; • failure to comply with, or significant changes in, regulatory requirements, such as FDA regulations and environmental laws; • destruction of, or damage to, our manufacturing facilities or equipment; • shortages of qualified personnel; and • difficulties in ensuring the quality and consistency of materials and services provided by our suppliers. If we experience any difficulties in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our ongoing clinical trials may be delayed and commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may be delayed. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials for manufacturing, as well as other components required for the administration of MyVax. The loss of any of these suppliers could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of MyVax. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials used in MyVax and other components used in the manufacturing process and required for the administration of MyVax. In particular, our manufacturing process for MyVax requires keyhole limpet hemocyanin or KLH, a foreign carrier protein which is derived from a giant sea snail. We purchase KLH from biosyn Arzneimittel GmbH, or biosyn, a single source supplier. In December 1998, we entered into a supply agreement with biosyn, pursuant to which biosyn agreed to supply us with KLH. The supply agreement expired on December 9, 2005, and a new agreement has not yet been entered into with biosyn. We remain in discussions with biosyn regarding a new supply agreement, but we may not be able to reach an agreement with biosyn on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. There may be no other supplier of KLH of suitable quality for 30 Table of Contents our purposes, and there are significant risks associated with our ability to produce KLH of suitable quality ourselves. Even if we identify another supplier of KLH, or produce KLH ourselves, we will not be able to use the alternative source of KLH for the commercial manufacture of MyVax unless the KLH is found to be comparable to the existing KLH. In addition, even if MyVax is approved for commercial sale by the FDA, the FDA requires that, before we can begin to commercially manufacture MyVax, we must ensure that any supplier of KLH will be compliant with cGMP. Any inability to obtain a sufficient supply of KLH of suitable quality from biosyn or an alternate supplier, or produce such KLH ourselves, could delay or prevent completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of MyVax. In addition, we currently purchase specialized cell culture containers and cell culture media, which are critical components of our manufacturing process, from Medtronic, Inc. and Hyclone Laboratories, each a single source supplier. We do not have a long-term contract with Medtronic or Hyclone and rely on purchase orders to obtain the necessary cell culture containers and cell culture media. Although to date, Medtronic and Hyclone have met our requirements for our clinical trials, there are no direct alternative sources of supply for the cell culture containers or cell culture media. Administration of MyVax requires an adjuvant, which is a substance that is administered with an antigen to enhance or increase the immune response to that antigen. We use Leukine sargramostim, a commercially available recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor known as GM-CSF, as an adjuvant for MyVax, which is commercially available solely from Berlex Laboratories, Inc. in the United States and Canada. We currently purchase GM-CSF from Berlex for use in our clinical trials on a purchase-order basis and do not have a supply agreement with Berlex. GM-CSF is an FDA-approved and commercially available drug that may be purchased by physicians. If GM-CSF were to become unavailable as a result of regulatory actions, supply constraints or other reasons, our development of MyVax could be delayed or jeopardized. In the event we receive regulatory approval for MyVax, we would need to significantly increase the volume of our purchases of these and other critical materials, and we cannot be certain that large volumes will be available from our current suppliers. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials or components may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar materials from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay or prevent completion of our clinical trials or commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of these materials, any of our prospective or ongoing clinical trials will be delayed. In addition, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA to use different materials that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory approval of MyVax may not be received at all. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. In order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we will need to significantly expand our employee base for managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We anticipate that we will need more than 350 employees by the time MyVax is initially commercialized, if MyVax receives regulatory approval. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our research and development efforts effectively; • manage our clinical trials effectively; • integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel; • develop and implement our administrative, accounting, operations, quality, distribution and management information systems and controls; and • hire, train and retain additional qualified personnel and retain our existing personnel. 31 Table of Contents We rely on the availability and condition of our sole manufacturing facility in Fremont, California. If the facility were damaged or destroyed then our ability to manufacture products would be significantly affected and we would be delayed or prevented from completing our clinical trials and commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We currently rely on the availability and condition of our sole manufacturing facility, located in Fremont, California, to manufacture MyVax. We completed the build-out of a new manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters in Fremont, California during the fourth quarter of 2006. The new facility is located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake which, depending on its magnitude, could be disruptive to our operations. If our manufacturing facility or the equipment in the facility were significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we would not be able to replace our manufacturing capacity quickly or inexpensively. We may have to wait until we repaired the facility or equipment before we could resume clinical production. The damage or destruction of the Fremont facility could affect our ability to complete clinical trials of, and to manufacture and commercialize, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. In addition, our facilities have been subject to electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available electrical power. Although we have back-up emergency power generators to cover energy needs for key support systems, a lengthy outage could disrupt the operations of our facilities and clinical trials. Any significant business interruption could cause delays in our product development or harm our business. Because it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. As of December 31, 2006, we held two U.S. patents covering our core gene amplification technology, including composition of matter claims directed to cell lines and claims directed to methods of making proteins derived from patients’ tumors. These patents expire in 2016. Corresponding patents, although more constrained in scope due to rules not applicable in the United States, have been issued in South Africa, Canada and Australia, all of which expire in 2017. We have also filed additional United States and corresponding foreign patent applications relating to our Hi-GET gene amplification technology. We expect to continue to file additional patent applications. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable active immunotherapies, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; 32 Table of Contents • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we believe we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general field of immunotherapy and gene expression. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may infringe. In particular, we are aware of patents held jointly by Genentech, Inc. and City of Hope National Medical Center relating to expression of recombinant antibodies, by British Technology Group PLC relating to expression of recombinant proteins in mammalian cells, by the Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University relating to expression of recombinant antibodies and by Stratagene relating to generation of DNA that encodes antibodies. To date, we have elected not to seek licenses for these patents because, among other reasons, we believe that our pre-commercialization activities fall within the scope of an available exemption. In addition, we do not believe that we will be required to seek any licenses upon completion of our pre-commercialization activities. For more information, please refer to the section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled “Business — Intellectual Property.” We may be exposed to future litigation by the companies holding these patents or other third parties based on claims that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or the methods we employ to manufacture them, infringe their intellectual property rights. Our ability to manufacture and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may depend on our ability to demonstrate that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and our manufacturing processes do not infringe third-party patents. If these patents were found to cover MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or our manufacturing process, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be unable to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, unless we obtained a license. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms in the future, if at all. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claimed that we infringed on its technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a third party’s patent; • a judicial prohibition against our selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and 33 Table of Contents • redesigning our process so it does not infringe which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We are not able to prevent others, including potential competitors, from using the patient-specific idiotype protein-KLH conjugate, comprising a single idiotype protein, that we use in our lead product candidate, MyVax, for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL. Although we are able to receive patent protection for our amplified cell lines and the process we use to manufacture the tumor-derived idiotype protein used in MyVax, the patient-specific idiotype-KLH conjugate, comprising a single idiotype protein, and its use for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL is in the public domain and therefore cannot be patented. As a result, we cannot prevent other companies using different manufacturing processes from developing active immunotherapies that directly compete with MyVax. Even if MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, receives regulatory approval, we may still face development and regulatory difficulties relating to MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, in the future. If we receive regulatory approval to sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If we discover previously unknown problems with a product or our manufacturing and laboratory facility, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. We will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend our regulatory approval; • suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our facilities; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Obtaining regulatory approval of our manufacturing process and facility or disruptions in our manufacturing process may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Before we can begin to commercially manufacture MyVax, we must obtain regulatory approval from the FDA for our manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we must pass a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility by the FDA before MyVax can obtain marketing approval. In order to obtain approval, we will need to ensure that all of our processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. If any of our vendors, contract laboratories or suppliers are found to be out of compliance with cGMP, we may experience delays or disruptions in the manufacturing of MyVax while we work with these third parties to remedy the violation or while we work to identify suitable replacement vendors. Many of our suppliers are also subject to inspection by the FDA or other regulatory bodies and could experience disruptions in their ability to supply products or services to us if regulators discover serious non-compliance issues. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may not be permitted to sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. 34 Table of Contents We are currently manufacturing MyVax for our clinical trials at our existing facility in Fremont, California. Our facility is currently subject to licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services. We applied for a license in the third quarter of 2006 and are waiting for the department to inspect our facility. Successful completion of an inspection is a condition to receipt of a license. Our facility is subject to inspection at any time by the FDA and the California Department of Health Services. Failure to obtain and maintain our license from the California Department of Health Services or to meet the inspection criteria of the FDA and the California Department of Health Services would disrupt our manufacturing processes and would harm our business. If an inspection by the FDA, California Department of Health Services or foreign regulatory authorities indicated that there were deficiencies, we could be required to take remedial actions, or our facility may be closed. In order to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we will need to equip and qualify our new manufacturing facility. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays and the costs of complying with FDA regulations may be higher than we anticipated. In addition, our facility is designed for the production of MyVax for 3,600 patients each year and, if MyVax receives regulatory approval, we would need to purchase and install additional equipment to achieve this level of manufacturing capacity. Any material changes we make to the manufacturing process may require approval by the FDA and state or foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and we may experience delays. Such delays could increase costs and adversely affect our business. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration or licensing arrangements or other arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may require that we pledge our assets, including our intellectual property or involve restrictive covenants that would restrict our business activities. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence and continue a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site and delays in recruiting patients to participate in a study. In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of such clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. If we have significant delays in testing or regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. If physicians and patients do not use MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our ability to generate revenue in the future will be limited. If approved, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any approved immunotherapies will depend on a number of factors, including: • acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; 35 Table of Contents • market acceptance of patient-specific active immunotherapies; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • ability to produce an active immunotherapy at a competitive price; • convenience and ease of administration; • publicity concerning our products or competitive products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients for the initial indication, it may be more difficult for us to generate sufficient credibility with physicians and patients to commercialize MyVax or other immunotherpies for other indications, and thus we may not ever generate enough product revenue to become profitable. If we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will be available from: • governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; • private health insurers, including managed care organizations; and • other third-party payors. Many patients will not personally be capable of paying for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop and will rely on third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. A primary current trend in the U.S. health care industry is toward cost containment. Large private payors, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Cost-control initiatives could lead us to decrease the price we might otherwise establish for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, which would also result in lower product revenues. If governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are more effective than MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Various products are currently marketed for the treatment of NHL, and a number of companies are developing new treatments. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have 36 Table of Contents fewer side effects or are less expensive than MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to: • successfully and rapidly complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a cost-effective manner; • reliably and cost-effectively manufacture sufficient quantities of MyVax; • maintain a proprietary position for our manufacturing process and other technology; • obtain appropriate reimbursement approvals for MyVax; • attract and retain key personnel; and • build an adequate sales and marketing infrastructure for MyVax. In addition, our ability to compete effectively will depend on the relative efficacy and safety of other products approved for sale as compared to own products. Various products are currently marketed for treatment of NHL. Rituxan, a monoclonal antibody co-marketed by Genentech, Inc. and Biogen Idec Inc., is approved for the first line treatment of relapsed or refractory, low grade or follicular B-cell NHL, as well as for first-line treatment of diffuse large B-cell NHL in combination with chemotherapy. In addition, several companies, such as GlaxoSmithKline and Biogen Idec Inc., are involved in the development of passive immunotherapies for the treatment of NHL. There are also additional monoclonal antibodies in various stages of development for NHL, many of which are slated to be used in combination with Rituxan. Other treatment approaches include radioimmunotherapy, which essentially combines a passive immunotherapy with a radio-labeled monoclonal antibody to improve tumor cell destruction. This approach is approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL and is under clinical investigation for earlier use in low grade NHL. For more information, please refer to the section entitled “Business — MyVax Personalized Immunotherapy” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, there are several companies focusing on the development of active immunotherapies for the treatment of NHL, including Favrille, Inc. and Biovest International, Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Accentia, Inc. Favrille has completed enrollment of its Phase 3 clinical trial, and Biovest is still enrolling patients for its active immunotherapy Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with follicular NHL. If either company meets its clinical trial endpoints and its immunotherapy is approved by the FDA, it could compete directly with MyVax, if approved. In addition, researchers are continually learning more about NHL and other forms of cancer, and new discoveries may lead to new technologies for treatment. As a result, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may be rendered obsolete and noncompetitive at any time. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize MyVax for indications other than follicular B-cell NHL are at an early stage and are subject to a high risk of failure. The process of successfully developing product candidates is very time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We have recently begun to direct our efforts toward the development of MyVax for indications other than follicular B-cell NHL. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial in February 2006 to evaluate MyVax for the treatment of CLL. This clinical trial is being conducted at eight sites across the United States. Patients in this Phase 2 clinical trial are administered 16 immunizations over 52 weeks. The primary endpoint of the Phase 2 clinical trial is whether or not an immune response can be generated. We have completed enrollment of 76 patients in this trial and the immunization phase has begun. We do not know whether this clinical trial or other clinical trials for MyVax in indications other than follicular B-cell NHL will be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether this clinical trial or other clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in clinical trials. We do not anticipate that MyVax for indications other than follicular B-cell NHL will reach the market for at least several years, if at all. 37 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with companies to sell and market MyVax, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these services. If MyVax is approved for commercial sale, we currently plan to establish our own sales force to market it in the United States. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We cannot be certain that we would be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell MyVax in the United States. We will also need to develop a plan to market and sell MyVax outside the United States. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we will incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, commercially. Currently, we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims. In the future, an individual may bring a liability claim against us if MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • substantial litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to patients; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We have general liability insurance, which includes product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials up to a $5.0 million annual aggregate limit. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Although we believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate, it may not be sufficient to cover all losses that might arise. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. As appropriate, we store these materials and various wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. We currently contract with a third party to dispose of these materials and various wastes resulting from the use of such materials at our facility. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes resulting from the use of such materials. While our costs for compliance, including costs related to the 38 Table of Contents disposal of hazardous materials, to date have been nominal, we may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the California and federal environmental protection agencies and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act. OSHA or the California or federal Environmental Protection Agency, may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. Even if our safety procedures for handling, storage and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. We have general liability insurance of up to $5.0 million per occurrence, with an annual aggregate limit of $5.0 million. This insurance may not cover a claim that arises if it is related to our biological or hazardous materials. Furthermore, if we were to be held liable for an accident involving our biological or hazardous materials, this liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our other financial resources. We are subject to new legislative efforts, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. For example, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full impact on our business of the implementation of this new legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which is managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This effect could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Our success depends upon our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly Dan W. Denney, Jr., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of Dr. Denney or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial or the commercialization of MyVax or adversely affect our other development efforts. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any members of senior management. As of December 31, 2006, Dr. Denney owned 1,266,933 shares of our common stock that were not subject to any vesting and options to purchase 779,167 shares of our common stock, of which approximately 285,415 shares were vested. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management other than Dr. Denney. The insurance covering Dr. Denney is in the amount of $10.0 million. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. In particular, our ability to deliver patient therapies depends upon our ability to attract and retain quality assurance and control personnel. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities. 39 Table of Contents Other Risks Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this Item, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • the success of our research efforts and clinical trials; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or delays in the FDA review process; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit involving us; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or biopharmaceutical industries in general; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • changes in accounting principles; and • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In particular, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would impair our business, operating results and financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make our acquisition, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent our acquisition or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include a classified board of directors and a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Finally, 40 Table of Contents these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The ownership interests of our officers, directors and largest stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. As of February 22, 2007, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 27.2% of our common stock (assuming no exercise of outstanding options or warrants). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Future sales of our common stock could lower the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 22, 2007, 36,052,685 shares of our common stock were outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws. Of the 3,871,814 shares issuable upon exercise of options to purchase our common stock outstanding as of February 22, 2007, approximately 1,628,613 shares were vested and eligible for sale as of February 22, 2007. In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and issue additional shares in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 registering the offer and sale from, time to time, of shares of our common stock in one or more offerings up to a total offering price of $125 million at prices and on terms to be determined by market conditions at the time of any offering made under the shelf registration statement. In February 2006, we sold 7,360,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $8.50 per share under the registration statement. Additional sales of shares under this shelf registration statement could harm the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 