Item 1A. Risk Factors Warning About Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we may also provide forward-looking statements in other materials that we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements discuss our strategy, expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, intellectual property, competitive position, and plans and objectives of management. We often use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “might,” “may” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Additionally, forward-looking statements include those relating to future actions, prospective products, future performance, financing needs, liquidity, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates and the outcome of contingencies, and financial results. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected by our forward-looking statements. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our operating results will vary from period to period. In addition, we have experienced losses in the past and may never achieve consistent profitability. Our operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We had net losses of $4.0 million, $30.1 million (including impairment charges of $27.5 million), and $0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. On a continuing operations basis, we had losses of $4.0 million, $30.1 million, and $0.9 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. Our operating results have been and/or may be influenced significantly by factors such as: • release of new products, product upgrades and services, and the rate of adoption of these products and services by new and existing customers; • timing, cost and success or failure of our new product and service introductions and upgrade releases; • length of sales and delivery cycles; 19 Table of Contents • size and timing of orders for our products and services; • changes in the mix of products and/or services sold; • availability of specified computer hardware for resale; • deferral and/or realization of deferred software license and system revenues according to contract terms; • interpretations of accounting regulations, principles or concepts that are or may be considered relevant to our business arrangements and practices; • changes in customer purchasing patterns; • changing economic, political and regulatory conditions, particularly with respect to the information technology-spending environment; • competition, including alternative product and service offerings, and price pressure; • rates and timing of customer attrition; • timing of, charges or costs associated with, and the distractions to management and impediments to customer sales activities caused by mergers, acquisitions or other strategic events or transactions, completed or not completed; • timing, cost and level of advertising and promotional programs; • changes of accounting estimates and assumptions used to prepare the prior periods’ financial statements and accompanying notes, and management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (e.g., our valuation of assets and estimation of liabilities); and • uncertainties concerning threatened, pending and new litigation against us, including related professional services fees; and • timing of revenue recognition can be delayed due to structured term deals, which can impact cash flow, operating margins and net income. Quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of the signing of license agreements and product deliveries during each quarter, which are very difficult to forecast. A significant portion of our quarterly sales of software product licenses and computer hardware is concluded in the last month of the fiscal quarter, generally with a concentration of our quarterly revenues earned in the final ten business days of that month. A portion of our revenues are contingent upon the successful implementation of our products, and can only be recognized once the customer’s solution is installed and ready for productive use. Also, our projections for revenues and operating results include significant sales of new product and service offerings. Due to these and other factors, our revenues and operating results are very difficult to forecast. A major portion of our costs and expenses, such as personnel and facilities, is of a fixed nature and, accordingly, a shortfall or decline in quarterly and/or annual revenues typically results in lower profitability or losses. As a result, comparison of our period-to-period financial performance is not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Due to the many variables in forecasting our revenues and operating results, it is likely that our results for any particular reporting period will not meet our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Failure to attain these expectations would likely cause the price of our common stock to decline. Failure to complete the pending tender offer and merger with Merge could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. On March 5, 2010, we entered into the Merge Merger Agreement, pursuant to which Merge will acquire all of the outstanding shares of AMICAS for $6.05 per share in cash. Under the terms of the Merge Merger Agreement, Merge will commence a cash tender offer for all of AMICAS’ outstanding common stock. Merge will then consummate a merger pursuant to which any untendered shares of AMICAS common stock (other than those shares held by AMICAS’ stockholders who have properly exercised their dissenters’ rights under Section 262 of the 20 Table of Contents Delaware General Corporation Law) will be converted into the right to receive the same $6.05 per share cash price. Following the consummation of the merger, the Company will continue as the surviving corporation and will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merge. The tender offer and merger are subject to certain closing conditions, including, but not limited to, a successful tender of a minimum number of shares of AMICAS common stock, antitrust clearance and other regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be satisfied or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or the tender offer and the merger will be successfully completed as contemplated under the Merge Merger Agreement or at all. If for any reason the tender offer and merger are not consummated: our investors may not receive $6.05 in cash or $6.05 in fair market value of shares of AMICAS common stock that Merge has agreed to provide in the tender offer and the merger, and our stock price would likely decline unless some other party were to offer an equivalent or higher price for our shares (and we have no expectation that there is any other party willing to offer an equivalent or higher price); and under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee to Merge of 4% of the aggregate consideration to be paid in the tender offer and merger and/or reimburse Merge for its out-of-pocket transaction-related expenses up to $3.0 million. In addition, the pendency of the tender offer and the merger could adversely affect our operations because: • the attention of our management and our employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on the tender offer and the merger; • our customers may seek to modify or terminate existing agreements, or prospective customers may delay entering into new agreements or purchasing our services as a result of the announcement of the tender offer and the merger, which could cause our revenues to materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue to be lower than expected; • our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the tender offer and the merger, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel or consultants; and • stockholder lawsuits could be filed against us challenging the tender offer and the merger. If this occurs, even if the lawsuits are groundless and we ultimately prevail, we may incur substantial legal fees and expenses defending these lawsuits, and the tender offer and the merger could be prevented or delayed. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and our stock price. If our new and existing products, including product upgrades, and services do not achieve and maintain sufficient market acceptance, our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenues, and operating results will suffer. The success of our business depends and will continue to depend in large part on the market acceptance of: • existing products and services, such as our AMICAS One Suite products, and related product and service offerings; • new products and services, such as AMICAS Dashboards, AMICAS Financials and RadStream; and • enhancements to our existing products, support and services, including AMICAS RIS, AMICAS ECM, AMICAS VERICIS, and AMICAS PACS. There can be no assurance that our customers will accept any of these products, product upgrades, support or services. In addition, even if our customers accept our products and services initially, we cannot assure you that they will continue to purchase our products and services at levels that are consistent with, or higher than, past quarters. Customers may significantly reduce their relationships with us or choose not to expand their relationship with us. In addition, any pricing strategy that we implement for any of our products, product upgrades, or services may not be economically viable or acceptable to our target markets. Failure to achieve or to sustain significant penetration in our target markets with respect to any of our products, product upgrades, or services could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents Achieving and sustaining market acceptance for our products, product upgrades and services is likely to require substantial marketing and service efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. In addition, deployment of new or newly integrated products or product upgrades may require the use of additional resources for training our existing sales force and customer service personnel and for hiring and training additional sales and customer service personnel. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities for our new products, product upgrades and services will justify the amounts that we spend for their development, marketing and rollout. If we are unable to sell our new and next-generation software products to healthcare providers that are in the market for healthcare information and/or image management systems, such inability will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If anticipated software sales and services do not materialize, or if we lose customers or experience significant declines in orders from our customers, our revenues would decrease over time due to the combined effects of attrition of existing customers and a shortfall in new client additions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses. Our recently completed acquisition of Emageon continues to require substantial integration and management efforts and we expect future acquisitions to require similar efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; • difficulties in maintaining compliance with quality and regulatory requirements, and difficulties in integrating multiple quality systems while maintaining compliance with evolving FDA requirements across the combined enterprise; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. As a result of these and other risks, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected as a result of legal, business and economic risks specific to international operations. We now have operations in Canada as a result of our acquisition of Emageon. Consequently, we are and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in a foreign country. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: • general political, social and economic instability; 22 Table of Contents • trade restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls; • exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and any other country in which we operate; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • foreign technical standards; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in securing and servicing international customers; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks may increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, as our customers are adversely affected by these conditions, our business with them may be disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. National and regional competitors could cause us to lower our prices or to lose customers. Our principal competitors include both national and regional practice management and clinical systems vendors. In general, until recently, larger, international and national vendors have targeted primarily large healthcare providers. We believe that the larger, national vendors may broaden their markets to include both small and large healthcare providers. In addition, we compete with national and regional providers of computerized billing, insurance processing and record management services to healthcare practices. As the market for our products and services expands, additional competitors are likely to enter this market. We believe that the primary competitive factors in our markets are: • product features and functionality; • customer service, support and satisfaction; • price; • ongoing product enhancements; and • vendor reputation and stability. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, increased competition from current and potential competitors, such as McKesson, Cerner, General Electric, Fuji, AGFA, Philips, Merge Healthcare and others many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. Such competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Also, certain current and potential competitors have greater name recognition or more extensive customer bases that could be leveraged, which could cause us to lose customers. We expect additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter into the practice management and clinical software markets and as new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, losses in customers, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their abilities to address the needs of our existing and prospective customers. Further competitive pressures, such as those resulting from competitors’ discounting of their products, may require us to reduce the price of our software and complementary products, which would materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on some of our existing customers to serve as reference sites for us in developing and expanding relationships with other customers and potential customers, and if the customers who serve as reference sites become unwilling to do so, our ability to obtain new customers or to expand customer relationships could be materially harmed. As an integral part of the process of establishing new client relationships and expanding existing relationships, we rely on current clients who agree to serve as reference sites for potential customers of our products and services. The reference sites allow potential customers to observe the operation of our products and services in a true-to-life environment and to ask questions of actual customers concerning the functionality, features and benefits of our product and service offerings. We cannot assure you that the sites that we currently have will continue to be willing to serve as reference sites, nor that the availability of the reference sites will be successful in establishing or expanding relationships with existing or new customers. If we lose reference sites and are unable to establish new ones in a timely manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The U.S. government is considering healthcare reform legislation, which may have a negative impact on our business. Among other things, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates for imaging procedures and professional services could negatively affect revenues of our hospital and imaging clinic customers, which could reduce our customers’ ability to purchase our software and services. The Congress and the Obama administration are currently considering far-reaching healthcare legislation that could have a negative impact on our business. There are significant differences between the legislation passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate, and the President of the United States has offered compromise proposals. While the outcome and impact of this legislative process is difficult to predict, pressure will continue to control spending in government programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid) and by third party payors. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for imaging services they provide from these programs and payors is critical to the success of our company. One specific change this year was enacted by the Department of Health and Human Services in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule regulation increases the equipment utilization assumption, which is part of the practice expense component of the technical part of the reimbursement rate, for MRI and CT services to 90 percent from 50 percent over a 4-year transition period. House and Senate health care reform bills make certain adjustments to this regulation. These changes in the utilization rate once fully implemented or further adjusted by future legislation have the potential to dramatically decrease technical reimbursements for radiology procedures, and could have a particularly negative impact on hospitals and imaging clinics in rural regions of the country where utilization rates are naturally lower. A second significant potential reimbursement change relates to the Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”) component of the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. The SGR is part of the update factor process used to set the annual rate of growth in allowed expenditures, and is determined by a formula specified by Congress. Because the annual calculation of the SGR would have led to reimbursement reductions that Congress found unacceptable, every year Congress has interceded to delay the implementation of this statutory SGR update factor. While these changes have provided temporary reimbursement relief, because of the significant budgetary impacts, Congress has left the SGR formula, thereby allowing annual unimplemented payment reductions to accumulate in the Medicare statute. As a result, for 2010, if this SGR had been allowed to be implemented, it would have caused a reduction in the update adjustment factor of 21.3 percent in the calculation of the Physician Fee Schedule. The Congress and Obama administration are currently considering various legislation to attempt to fix this problem, but the prospects for enactment remain uncertain. These changes being considered have the potential to negatively impact the professional component of reimbursement. 24 Table of Contents Either of these changes related to the equipment utilization assumption or the SGR calculation or other changes in a health care reform bill could result in a reduction in software and service procurement of our customers, and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. If the marketplace demands subscription pricing, application service provider, or ASP delivered offerings or software as a service or SAAS delivered offerings, our revenues may be adversely impacted. We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenues from traditional perpetual software license, maintenance and service fees, as well as from the resale of computer hardware. Our revenues from application service provider and/or software as a service are immaterial. Increased marketplace demands for subscription pricing, multi-year financing arrangements, application service provider offerings and/or software as a service offering, may cause us to adjust our strategy accordingly by offering a higher percentage of our products and services on such terms. Shifting to subscription pricing, multi-year financing arrangements, application service provider and/or software as a service offerings could materially adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows and quarterly and annual revenues and results of operations, as our revenues could continue to be negatively impacted. Our business could suffer if our products and services contain errors, experience failures, result in loss of our customers’ data or do not meet customer expectations. The products and services that we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in prior, current or future versions, or enhancements of our products and services. We also cannot assure you that our products and services will not experience partial or complete failure, especially with respect to our new product or service offerings. It is also possible that as a result of any of these errors and/or failures, our customers may suffer loss of data. The loss of business, medical, diagnostic, or patient data or the loss of the ability to process data for any length of time may be a significant problem for some of our customers who have time-sensitive or mission-critical practices. We could face breach of warranty or other claims or additional development costs if our software contains errors, if our customers suffer loss of data or are unable to process their data, if our products and/or services experience failures, do not perform in accordance with their documentation, or do not meet the expectations that our customers have for them. Even if these claims do not result in our having any liability, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or reduce market acceptance of our products and services, including unrelated products and services. Such errors, failures or claims could also cause us to lose customers or to experience significant decreases in orders from existing customers, and could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our competitive position could be significantly harmed if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party challenges. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect the intellectual property rights related to our software applications. Most of our software technology is not patented and existing copyright laws offer only limited practical protection. Our practice is to require all new employees to sign a confidentiality agreement and most of our employees have done so. However, not all existing employees have signed confidentiality agreements. In addition, third parties with whom we share confidential information are required to sign confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that the legal protections that we rely on will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Further, we may need to bring lawsuits or pursue other legal or administrative proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights. Generally, lawsuits and proceedings of this type, even if successful, are costly, time consuming and could divert our personnel and other resources away from our business, which could harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Moreover, these protections do not prevent independent third-party development of competitive technology or services. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Monitoring use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could be costly to defend and could divert our management’s attention away from our business. As the number of software products and services in our target markets increases and as the functionality of these products and services overlaps, we are increasingly subject to the threat of intellectual property infringement claims. Any infringement claims alleged against us, regardless of their merit, will be time-consuming and expensive to defend. Infringement claims will also divert our management’s attention and resources and could also cause delays in the delivery of our products and services to our customers. Settlement of any infringement claims could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on terms that are costly or cost-prohibitive. If a claim of infringement against us was successful and if we were unable to license the infringing or similar technology or redesign our products and services to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations will be harmed. We may undertake additional acquisitions, which may involve significant uncertainties and may increase costs and divert management resources from our core business activities, or we may fail to realize anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. We announced our acquisition of Emageon on in April 2009. We may undertake additional acquisitions if we identify companies with desirable applications, products, services, customer bases, businesses or technologies. We may not achieve any of the anticipated synergies and other benefits that we expected to realize from these acquisitions. In addition, software companies depend heavily on their employees to maintain the quality of their software offerings and related customer services. If we are unable to retain the acquired companies’ personnel or integrate them into our operations, the value of the acquired applications, products, services, distribution capabilities, business, technology, and/or customer base could be compromised. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition are also subject to other significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • our ability to cross-sell products and services to customers with whom we have established relationships and those with whom the acquired business had established relationships; • diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business; • potential conflicts in customer and supplier relationships; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; • dilution to existing stockholders if we issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions; • assumption of liabilities or other obligations in connection with the acquisition; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. Further, our profitability may also suffer because of acquisition-related costs and/or amortization or impairment of intangible assets. 26 Table of Contents Technology solutions may change faster than we are able to update our technologies, which could cause a loss of customers and have a negative impact on our revenues. The information technology market in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and the frequent introduction of new services, software and other products. Our success depends partly on our ability to: • develop new or enhance existing products and services to meet the changing needs of our customers and the marketplace in a timely and cost-effective way; and • respond effectively to technological changes, new product offerings, product enhancements and new services of our competitors. We cannot be sure that we will be able to accomplish these goals. Our development of new and enhanced products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. In addition, there can be no assurance that the products and/or services we develop or license will be able to compete with the alternatives available to our customers. Our competitors may develop products or technologies that are better or more attractive than our products or technologies, or that may render our products or technologies obsolete. If we do not succeed in adapting our products, technology and services or developing new products, technologies and services, our business could be harmed. Our customers and potential customers may not be able to obtain financing, which could impact their purchasing decisions with respect to our products. Our future revenues and orders growth depend on sales of our image and information management solution for imaging businesses and hospitals, which require a significant investment in software, professional services and hardware. Our sales prospects often seek financing to fund these initiatives. Economic conditions in the credit markets could limit our potential customers’ ability to obtain financing. The inability to obtain financing could cause a prospective customer to delay and/or refrain from making new purchases from us, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our inability to renew, or make material modifications to, agreements with our third-party product and service providers could lead to a loss of customers and have a negative impact on our revenues. Some of our customers demand the ability to acquire a variety of products from one provider. Some of these products are not owned or developed by us. Through agreements with third parties, we currently resell the desired hardware, software and services to these customers. However, in the event these agreements are not renewed or are renewed on less favorable terms, we could lose sales to competitors who market the desired products to these customers or recognize less revenue. If we do not succeed in maintaining our relationships with our third-party providers, our business could be harmed. The nature of our products and services exposes us to product liability claims that may not be adequately covered by insurance or contractual indemnification. As a product and service provider in the healthcare industry, we operate under the continual threat of product liability claims being brought against us. Errors or malfunctions with respect to our products or services could result in product liability claims. In addition, certain agreements require us to indemnify and hold others harmless against certain matters. Although we believe that we carry adequate insurance coverage against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that claims in excess of our insurance coverage will not arise. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain what we believe to be adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost in the past, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. In many instances, agreements which we enter into contain provisions requiring the other party to the agreement to indemnify us against certain liabilities. However, any indemnification of this type is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. If the contractual indemnification rights 27 Table of Contents available under such agreements are not adequate, or inapplicable to the product liability claims that may be brought against us, then, to the extent not covered by our insurance, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to claims resulting from the activities of our strategic partners. We rely on third parties to provide certain services and products critical to our business. For example, we use national clearinghouses in the processing of insurance claims and we outsource some of our hardware maintenance services and the printing and delivery of patient billings for our customers. We also sell third-party products, several of which manipulate clinical data and information. We also have relationships with certain third parties where these third parties serve as sales channels through which we generate a portion of our revenues. Due to these third-party relationships, we could be subject to claims as a result of the activities, products, or services of these third-party service providers even though we were not directly involved in the circumstances leading to those claims. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, defending against and investigating these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. We are subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties, compliance with which could have a material adverse effect on our business. HIPAA Federal regulations impact the manner in which we conduct our business. We have been, and may continue to be, required to expend additional resources to comply with regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as amended by Subtitle D of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”). The total extent and amount of resources to be expended is not yet known. Because HITECH is relatively new, and there has been little guidance published regarding significant aspects of the law, there is uncertainty as to how we must comply, and how HITECH will be interpreted and enforced. Although we have made, and will continue to make, a good faith effort to ensure that we comply with, and that our future products enable compliance with, applicable law, we may not be able to conform all of our operations and products to such requirements in a timely manner, or at all. The failure to do so could subject us and our customers to penalties and damages, as well as civil liability and criminal sanctions. We also face significant reputational harm in the event that we are responsible for a breach that is publicly reported under the law. In addition, any delay in developing or failure to develop products and/or deliver services that would enable HIPAA compliance for our current and prospective customers could put us at a significant disadvantage in the marketplace. Accordingly, our business, and the sale of our products and services, could be materially harmed by failures with respect to our compliance with HIPAA and HITECH. E-Commerce Regulations We may be subject to federal and state statutes and regulations in connection with offering services and products via the Internet. On an increasingly frequent basis, federal and state legislators are proposing laws and regulations that apply to Internet commerce and communications. Areas being affected by these regulations include user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyright protection, distribution, and quality of products and services. To the extent that our products and services are subject to these laws and regulations, the sale of our products and services could be harmed. FDA Our PACS and Hemodynamics products are regulated as Class I or Class II medical devices by the FDA. As a result, we are required to register with the FDA, obtain clearance to market our FDA-regulated products and comply with applicable FDA requirements including its quality systems regulations. Satisfaction of the clearance requirements and other regulatory requirements is time consuming and costly. Failure to comply could result in enforcement actions such as withdrawal of clearances, delays in or refusal to clear new products, product recalls 28 Table of Contents or seizures, injunctions, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. Any of these enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The FDA currently is reevaluating the criteria that it uses in its review of 510(k) premarket notifications and has indicated that it expects to issue new guidance on the 510(k) requirements by September 2010. We cannot predict how or whether the new requirements will affect any of our then pending or subsequent 510(k) notifications for new products. The FDA audits the facilities and operations of medical device manufacturers on a periodic basis. Our facilities and operations in Daytona, Florida, Hartland, Wisconsin and Boston, Massachusetts have been audited over recent years. Each such audit has resulted in a “voluntary actions indicated” report that contains recommendations of the examining official imposing corrective actions and follow-up reporting. We believe that we are in compliance with FDA regulations and with the requirements arising from FDA audits, abut thee can be no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. Our failure to comply with FDA regulations or to maintain compliance with the recommendations contained in recent FDA audits could result in the imposition of enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We and our customers must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, the breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with our customers are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether or not retroactive. State and federal laws relating to confidentiality of patient medical records could limit our customers’ ability to use our services and expose us to liability. The confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which records may be released are already subject to substantial governmental regulation, and these regulations as well as patient confidentiality rights are evolving rapidly. A breach of any privacy rights of a customer and/or patient of a customer by one of our employees could subject us to significant liability, civil or criminal enforcement, and reputational harm. In addition to the obligations being imposed at the state level, there is also legislation governing the privacy, security and dissemination of medical information at the federal level. Federal law requires holders of this information to implement security measures, which could entail substantial expenditures on our part. Adoption of additional legislation, changes to state or federal laws or our failure to comply with them could materially affect or restrict the ability or willingness of healthcare providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. These kinds of restrictions would likely decrease the value of our applications to our customers, which could materially harm our business. We depend on our partners and suppliers for delivery of electronic data interchange (e.g., insurance claims processing and invoice printing services), commonly referred to as EDI, hardware maintenance services, third-party software or software or hardware components of our offerings, and sales lead generation. Any failure, inability or unwillingness of these suppliers to perform these services or provide their products could negatively impact our customers’ satisfaction and our revenues. We use various third-party suppliers to provide our customers with EDI transactions and on-site hardware maintenance. EDI revenues would be particularly vulnerable to a supplier failure because EDI revenues are earned on a daily basis. We rely on numerous third-party products that are made part of our software offerings and/or that 29 Table of Contents we resell. Although other vendors are available in the marketplace to provide these products and services, it would take time to switch suppliers. If these suppliers were unable or unwilling to perform such services, provide their products or if the quality of these services or products declined, it could have a negative impact on our customers satisfaction and result in a decrease in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. Our systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and viruses. The success of our strategy to offer our products depends on the confidence of our customers in our ability to securely transmit confidential information. Our products rely on encryption, authentication and other security technology licensed from third parties to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications by our customers. Some of our customers have had their use of our software significantly impacted by computer viruses. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential user information or interrupt our operations and those of our customers. In addition, our products may be vulnerable to viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions. Any failure to provide secure electronic communication services could result in a lack of trust by our customers, causing them to seek out other vendors, and/or damage our reputation in the market, making it difficult to obtain new customers. Moreover, any such failure could cause us to be sued. Even if these law suits do not result in any liability to us, defending against and investigating these law suits could be expensive and time-consuming, and could divert personnel and other resources from our business. Our growth could be limited if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel to develop, sell and implement our products and services. Individuals with the information technology, managerial and selling skills we need to further develop, sell and implement our products and services are in short supply and competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to pay higher compensation for employees than we currently expect. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel we need to continue to grow and to implement our business strategy. In addition, we depend on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, healthcare reform initiatives, if enacted, and existing government stimulus legislation may stimulate greater demand for personnel skilled in creating and delivering solutions in the electronic medical records and related markets. As such, AMICAS and other companies in our market space may experience a significant increase in the demand for and compensation payable to qualified healthcare IT personnel in areas such as sales, implementation, and training, and we may encounter greater difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified employees in these areas. We may be exposed to credit risks of our customers. We recorded revenues of $89.1 million in fiscal year 2009 and we bill substantial amounts to many of our customers. A deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers could impact our ability to collect receivables or sell future services to those customers, which could negatively impact the results of our operations. In addition, we have provided payment terms in excess of one year to certain customers, which exposes us to future credit risk with those customers. At December 31, 2009, no one customer represented more than 10% of our accounts receivable. If any group of our significant customers were unable to pay us in a timely fashion, or if we were to experience significant credit losses in excess of our reserves, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to successfully develop new products and adapt to new technological change. To remain competitive, we will need to develop new products, evolve existing products, and adapt to technological change. Technical developments, customer requirements, computer programming languages and industry standards change frequently in our markets. As a result, success in current markets and new markets will depend upon our ability to enhance current products, develop and introduce new products that meet customer needs, 30 Table of Contents keep pace with changes in technology, respond to competitive products, and achieve market acceptance. Product development requires substantial investments for research, refinement and testing. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make necessary product development investments. We may experience difficulties that will delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or implementation of new or enhanced products. Our inability to introduce or implement new or enhanced products in a timely manner would adversely affect our future financial performance. Our products are complex and may contain errors. Computer programming errors in products will require us to ship corrected products to customers. Errors in products could cause the loss of or delay in market acceptance or sales and revenue, the diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, and increased service, indemnification and warranty costs which would have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur increased costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. As a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. Although we have completed the documentation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect to continue to incur costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with that section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We continue to monitor controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will likely remain volatile. The trading prices of many publicly-traded companies are highly volatile, particularly companies such as ours that have limited operating histories. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that will continue to affect the trading price of our common stock include: • our pending transaction with Merge • variations in our operating results, • announcements of new services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors, • recruitment or departure of key personnel, • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our common stock, and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, if the market for healthcare stocks or healthcare services or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. 31 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. There are many large, publicly-traded companies active in the healthcare services industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 