Item 1A Risk Factors Investing in our common stock is very speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all of the information in this report before making an investment decision. The following are among the risks we face related to our business, assets and operations. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also arise. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. You should not purchase our shares unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. 11 We are a development stage company, and our business and prospects are extremely difficult to evaluate. Since our inception in September 2003, the majority of our resources have been dedicated to our R&D efforts, and we have only recently begun to transition into the very early stages of commercial PbC prototype production. We do not have a stable operating history that you can rely on in connection with your evaluation of our current business and our future business prospects. Our business and prospects must be carefully considered in light of the limited history of PbC technology and the many business risks, uncertainties and difficulties that are typically encountered by development stage companies that have sporadic revenues and are committed to focusing on research, development and product testing for an indeterminate period of time. Some of the principal risks and difficulties we have encountered and expect to continue to encounter include, but are not limited to, our ability to: · Maintain effective control over the cost of our research, pace of progress, development and product testing activities; · Develop cost effective manufacturing methods for essential components of our proposed products; · Improve the performance of our commercial prototype batteries; · Successfully transition from our laboratory research and pilot production efforts to commercial manufacturing and sales of our battery technologies; · Adapt and successfully execute our business plan; · Implement and improve operational, financial and management control systems and processes; · License complementary technologies if necessary and successfully defend our intellectual property rights against potential claims; · Respond effectively to competitive developments and changing market conditions; · Continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · Manage each of the other risks set forth below. Because of our limited operating history and our relatively recent transition into the production of prototype PbC devices that we are relying on to become our core revenue generating products, we have limited insight into trends and conditions that may exist or might emerge and affect our business. There is no assurance that our business strategy will be successful or that we will successfully address the risks identified in this report. We have incurred net losses from inception and do not expect to introduce our first commercial PbC products for a minimum of three months. From our inception we have incurred net losses and expect to continue to incur substantial and possibly increasing losses for the foreseeable future as we increase our spending to finance the development of and production methods for our PbC devices, our administrative activities, and the costs associated with being a public company. Our operating losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net loss applicable to common shareholders of approximately $18.6 million. In addition, we had cumulative losses from inception (September 18, 2003) to December 31, 2009 of $60.9 million. Our PbC technology has not reached a point where we can mass produce batteries based on the technology, and we will not be in a position to commercialize such products until we complete the design development, manufacturing process development and pre-market testing activities. We believe the development and testing process will require a minimum of an additional three months. There can be no assurance that our development and testing activities will be successful or that our proposed products will achieve market acceptance or be sold in sufficient quantities and at prices necessary to make them commercially viable. If we do not realize sufficient revenue to achieve profitability, our business could be harmed. 12 Our revenues may suffer if general economic conditions do not begin to improve. Our revenues and our ability to generate earnings are affected by the general economic factors that are adversely impacting the global economy, such as lack of liquidity in the capital markets, reduced demand for consumer and industrial products, excessive inflation, currency fluctuations, increased commodity prices and employment levels, resulting in a temporary or longer-term overall decline in demand for our products. This trend continues with excess supply in the industries in which we operate. As we sell our products, we may become the subject of product liability claims. Due to the hazardous nature of many of the key materials used in the manufacturing of batteries, the producers of such products may be exposed to a greater number of product liability claims, including possible environmental claims. We currently have product liability insurance up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate to protect us against the risk that in the future a product liability claim or product recall could materially and adversely affect our business operations. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our product. We cannot assure you that as we continue distribution of our products that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate coverage on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could materially and adversely affect our reputation and prospects, and divert management’s time and attention. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our future products our liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay such liability. Our products contain hazardous materials including lead. Lead is a toxic material that is a primary raw material in our batteries. We also use, generate and discharge other toxic, volatile and hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research, development and manufacturing activities. We are required to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and environmental protection. Under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek to recover response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. In addition, more stringent laws and regulations may be adopted in the future, and the costs of complying with those laws and regulations could be substantial. If we fail to control the use of, or inadequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines, or be forced to suspend certain operations. We are subject to stringent environmental regulation. We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. We believe that all permits and licenses required for the operation of our business are in place. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our property or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, or financial condition. The growth we seek is substantial and challenging to achieve and maintain. The realization of our business objectives will require substantial future growth. Even in the event we are able to complete the development of our prototypes, introduce our products to the market and grow our business, we expect that rapid growth will significantly challenge our managerial, operational and financial resources. We must continue to prepare for our growth, if any, through appropriate systems and controls. We must also establish, train and manage a much larger work force, which will again require advance planning. If we do not prepare for and manage the growth of our business effectively, our potential for success could be materially and adversely affected. Being a public company increases our administrative costs significantly. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that would not be incurred by a comparable private company. Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations have made some activities more time consuming and expensive and require us to implement corporate governance and internal control procedures that are not typical for development stage companies. We also incur a variety of internal and external costs associated with the preparation, filing and distribution of the periodic public reports and proxy statements required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we spent $230,433 on these expenses, however, we do expect that Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations, including the prospective requirements of auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, will make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified directors and executive officers. 13 We depend on key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our business is dependent upon the knowledge and experience of our key scientists, engineers and executive officers. Given the competitive nature of our industry, there is the risk that one or more of our key scientists or engineers will resign their positions, which could have a disruptive impact on our operations. If any of our key scientists, engineers or executive officers do not continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and our business may be severely disrupted. If any of these individuals joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose important know-how and experience and incur substantial expense to recruit and train suitable replacements. Currently, all of our key employees have employment contracts which have remaining terms of at least four months and non-compete provisions that extend an additional 24 months beyond contract termination. We cannot begin automated production of our PbC technology for a minimum of three months. We will not be able to begin full commercial production of our PbC energy storage devices until we complete our current testing operations, our planned application evaluation and our planned product development. We believe our path to automated production will require a minimum of three months. Even if our prototype development operations are successful, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain our facilities and relationships for the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our PbC batteries and other technologies or that any future products will achieve market acceptance and be sold in sufficient quantities and at prices necessary to make them commercially successful. Even if our proposed products are commercially successful, there can be no assurance that we will realize enough revenue and gross margin from the sale of products to achieve profitability. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for indemnification and exculpation of our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for indemnification of our officers, directors and employees to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. It also provides exculpation of our directors for monetary damages arising from breach of their fiduciary duties in cases that do not involve fraud or willful misconduct. The Securities and Exchange Commission has advised that it believes that indemnification for liabilities arising under the securities laws is against public policy as expressed in the securities laws and is therefore unenforceable. We have limited manufacturing experience which may translate into substantial cost overruns in manufacturing and marketing our products. As we transition into the commercial production of our prototype devices, we may experience substantial cost overruns in manufacturing and marketing our PbC technologies, and we may not have sufficient capital in the future to successfully complete such tasks. In addition, we may not be able to manufacture or market our products because of industry conditions, general economic conditions, and/or competition from potential manufacturers and distributors. Either of these inabilities could cause us to abandon our current business plan and may cause our operations to eventually fail. Risks related to our PbC Technology We need to improve the performance of our commercial prototypes to achieve large scale production. Our commercial prototypes do not satisfy all of our performance expectations, and we need to continue to improve various aspects of our PbC technology as we move forward with larger scale production of our commercial prototypes. There is no assurance that we will be able to resolve the known technical issues. Future testing of our prototypes may reveal additional technical issues that are not currently recognized as obstacles. If we cannot improve the performance of our prototypes in a timely manner, we may be forced to redesign or delay the large scale production of commercial prototypes or possibly cause us to abandon our product development efforts altogether. 14 We do not have any long-term vendor contracts. We currently purchase the raw materials for our carbon electrodes and a variety of other components from third parties. We then fabricate our carbon electrodes and build our prototypes in-house. We do not have any long-term contracts with suppliers of raw materials and components, and our current suppliers may be unable to satisfy our future requirements on a timely basis. Moreover, the price of purchased raw materials and components could fluctuate significantly due to circumstances beyond our control. If our current suppliers are unable to satisfy our long-term requirements on a timely basis, we may be required to seek alternative sources for necessary materials and components or redesign our proposed products to accommodate available substitutes. We do not have extensive manufacturing experience. We do not have extensive manufacturing experience with respect to manufacturing our commercial prototypes in quantities required to achieve our operational goals, and there is no assurance that we will be able to retain a qualified manufacturing staff or effectively manage the manufacturing of our proposed products when we are ready to do so. We will be a small player in an intensely competitive market and may be unable to compete. The lead-acid battery industry is large, intensely competitive and resistant to technological change. If our product development efforts are successful, we will have to compete or enter into further strategic relationships with well-established companies that are much larger and have greater financial capital and other resources than we do. We may be unable to convince end users that products based on our PbC technology are superior to available alternatives. Moreover, if competitors introduce similar products, they may have a greater ability to withstand price competition and finance their marketing programs. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. To the extent we enter into strategic relationships, we will be dependent upon our partners. Some of our products are not intended for direct sale to end users and our business strategy is likely to require us to enter into strategic relationships with manufacturers of other power industry equipment that use batteries and other energy storage devices as important components of their finished products. The agreements governing any future strategic relationships are unlikely to provide us with control over the activities of any strategic relationship we negotiate and our future partners, if any, could retain the right to terminate the strategic relationship at their option. Our future partners will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and level of resources that they dedicate to our products and may be unwilling or unable to fulfill their obligations to us. In addition, our future partners may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with the products that we intend to produce. Risks relating to our intellectual property We may rely on licenses for our PbC technology, which may affect our continued operations with respect thereto. As we develop our PbC technology, we may need to license additional technologies to optimize the performance of our products. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our proposed products. Our inability to obtain any necessary licenses could delay our product development and testing until alternative technologies can be identified, licensed and integrated. The inability to obtain any necessary third-party licenses could cause us to abandon a particular development path, which could seriously harm our business, financial position and results of our operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and preserve our trade secrets, we will increase our vulnerability to competitors which could materially adversely impact our ability to remain in business. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend, in large measure, on our ability to protect those products and our technology with domestic and foreign patents. We will also need to continue to preserve our trade secrets. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. The patent positions of technology companies, including us, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. We cannot assure you that our patents will prevent other companies from developing similar products or products which produce benefits substantially the same as our products, or that other companies will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require us to pay significant licensing fees in order to market our products. Accordingly, if our patent applications are not approved or, even if approved, if such patents are circumvented or not upheld in a court of law, our ability to competitively exploit our patented products and technologies may be significantly reduced. Additionally, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. 15 From time to time, we may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties in order to develop, manufacture and market our products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially exploit such products may be inhibited or prevented. Additionally, we cannot assure investors that any of our products or technology will be patentable or that any future patents we obtain will give us an exclusive position in the subject matter claimed by those patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patent protection will be secured for any particular technology, or that our issued patents will be valid or enforceable or provide us with meaningful protection. If we are required to engage in expensive and lengthy litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, the costs of such litigation could be material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and, if we are unsuccessful, the results of such litigation could materially adversely impact our entire business. We may find it necessary to initiate further litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We plan to aggressively defend our proprietary technology and any issued patents if funding is available to do so. Litigation concerning patents, trademarks, copyrights and proprietary technologies can often be time-consuming and expensive and, as with litigation generally, the outcome is inherently uncertain. Although we have entered into invention assignment agreements with our employees and with certain advisors, if those employees or advisors develop inventions or processes independently which may relate to products or technology under development by us, disputes may also arise about the ownership of those inventions or processes. Time-consuming and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our rights under these agreements. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our strategic partners, customers, suppliers, employees and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We may be required to commence litigation to enforce such agreements, and it is certainly possible that we will not have adequate remedies for breaches of our confidentiality agreements. Other companies may claim that our technology infringes on their intellectual property or proprietary rights and commence legal proceedings against us which could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in our being prohibited from developing, marketing, selling or distributing our products. Because of the complex and difficult legal and factual questions that relate to patent positions in our industry, we cannot assure you that our products or technology will not be found to infringe upon the intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our products or technology infringe on their patents, copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary rights and demand that we cease development or marketing of those products or technology or pay license fees. We may not be able to avoid costly patent infringement litigation, which will divert the attention of management away from the development of new products and the operation of our business. We cannot assure investors that we would prevail in any such litigation. If we are found to have infringed on a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be liable for money damages, encounter significant delays in bringing products to market or be precluded from manufacturing particular products or using particular technology. Other parties may challenge certain of our foreign patent applications. If such parties are successful in opposing our foreign patent applications, we may not gain the protection afforded by those patent applications in particular jurisdictions and may face additional proceedings with respect to similar patents in other jurisdictions, as well as related patents. The loss of patent protection in one jurisdiction may influence our ability to maintain patent protection for the same technology in another jurisdiction. New technology may lead to our competitors developing superior products which would reduce demand for our products. Research into the electrochemical applications for carbon nanotechnology and other storage technologies is proceeding at a rapid pace, and many private and public companies and research institutions are actively engaged in the development of new battery technologies based on carbon nanotubes, nanostructured carbon materials and other non-carbon materials. These new technologies may, if successfully developed, offer significant performance or price advantages when compared with our technologies. There is no assurance that our existing patents or our pending and proposed patent applications will offer meaningful protection if a competitor develops a novel product based on a new technology. 16 Risks relating to our common stock The number of shares of common stock we are obligated to register could depress our stock price. Effective May 29, 2009, we registered 3,421,036 shares of our common stock for resale by certain selling stockholders. Pursuant to a private placement transaction of our Common Stock, which closed on December 22, 2009, and which is the subject of a registration statement on Form S-1 which we filed with the SEC on January 15, 2010, we are obligated to register an additional 45,757,572 shares of our common stock for resale by the selling stockholders. The sale of a significant number of these shares may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have issued a large number of convertible securities, warrants and options that may increase, perhaps significantly, the number of common shares outstanding. As of March 17, 2010, we had 84,653,302 shares of common stock outstanding, (a) we have 100,000 unvested common shares that have been granted and not issued, (b) we have warrants outstanding and that, if exercised, would generate proceeds of $18,979,625 and cause us to issue up to an additional 13,865,433 shares of common stock. 1,385,714 of these warrants were classified as derivative liabilities, and (c) we have options outstanding to purchase common stock that, if exercised, would generate proceeds of $4,655,799 and result in the issuance of an additional 1,721,270 shares of common stock. We have provided and intend to continue offering compensation packages to our management and employees that emphasize equity-based compensation. As a key component of our growth strategy, we have provided and intend to continue offering compensation packages to our management and employees that emphasize equity-based compensation. In particular: · Our incentive stock plan authorized incentive awards for up to 2,000,000 shares of our common stock; we have issued incentive awards for an aggregate of 782,950 shares; and we have the power to issue incentive awards for an additional 1,217,050 shares without stockholder approval; · Our independent directors’ stock option plan authorized options for up to 500,000 shares of our common stock; we have issued options for an aggregate of 467,685 shares; and have the power to issue options for an additional 32,315 shares without stockholder approval; · We have issued contractual options for an aggregate of 1,943,000 shares of our common stock, of which 908,000 are currently outstanding, to executive officers under the terms of their employment agreements with us; and · We have issued contractual options for an aggregate of 1,180,700 shares of our common stock, of which 485,400 are currently outstanding to certain employees, attorneys and consultants under the terms of their agreements with us. We are required to account for the fair market value of equity compensation awards as operating expenses. As our business matures and expands, we expect to incur increasing amounts of non-cash compensation expense, which may materially and adversely affect our future operating results. We may issue stock to finance acquisitions. We may wish to acquire complementary technologies, additional facilities and other assets. Whenever possible, we will try to use our stock as an acquisition currency in order to conserve our available cash for operations, but use of stock as an acquisition currency will also dilute the ownership of then currently existing stockholders. Future acquisitions may give rise to substantial charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that would materially and adversely affect our reported operating results. Any future acquisitions will involve numerous business and financial risks, including: 17 · difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products and staff; · diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and · cost and availability of acquisition financing. We will need to be able to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because of factors unique to us, the market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Due to the large number of shares that we have registered and will register in the future on behalf of certain selling stockholders, the development stage of our business and numerous other factors, the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In addition, actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; the introduction of new products by competitors; changes in competitive conditions or trends in the battery industry; changes in governmental regulation and changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future performance or that of our competitors or our industry in general, could adversely affect our future stock price. Investors should not purchase our common stock if they are unable to suffer a complete loss of their investment. Our stock price may not stabilize at current levels. Our common stock is quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Since trading in our common stock began in January 2004, trading has been sporadic, trading volumes have been low and the market price has been volatile. The closing price reported as of March 17, 2010, the latest practicable date, was $1.15 per share. Current quotations are not necessarily a reliable indicator of value and there is no assurance that the market price of our stock will stabilize at or near current levels. 