Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. economy or the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA, which, among other measures, authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the CPP authorized by TARP (as well as the Capital Assistance Program announced on February 25, 2009), Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The series B preferred stock and warrant offered by this prospectus were issued by us to Treasury pursuant to the CPP. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the FRB, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Most recently, on February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law. ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus bill or economic recovery package, is intended to stimulate the economy and provides for broad infrastructure, education and health spending. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult conditions in the financial services markets have adversely affected the business and results of operations of the Company, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The Company has historically used federal funds purchased as a short-term liquidity source and, while the Company continues to actively use this source, further credit tightening in the market could reduce funding lines available to the Company. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, thereby having an adverse effect on our operating results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. In addition, although our level of delinquencies historically has been low, we have been increasing and expect to continue to increase the number and amount of loans we originate, and we cannot guarantee that we will not experience an increase in delinquencies and losses as these loans continue to age, particularly if the economic conditions in Colorado and Arizona further deteriorate. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at any specific point in time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. Additions to our allowance for loan losses would decrease our net income. 18 Table of Contents A majority of our loans are secured by real estate. This concentration, coinciding with a downturn in our real estate markets, could affect our business. There has been a downturn in the real estate market, a slow-down in construction and an oversupply of real estate for sale in both 2007 and 2008. This downturn, and any additional softening, in our real estate markets could hurt our business because a majority of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. At December 31, 2008, approximately 70% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Arizona and Colorado. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our commercial and construction loans are subject to various lending risks depending on the nature of the borrower’s business, its cash flow and our collateral. Our commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. Repayment of commercial real estate loans is generally dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Rental income may not rise sufficiently over time to meet increases in the loan rate at repricing or increases in operating expenses, such as utilities and taxes. As a result, impaired loans may be more difficult to identify without some seasoning. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. If the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on cash flow of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Generally, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs to construct and the value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate due to the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property making it relatively difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. Delays in completing the project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredictable contingencies. If the estimate of construction costs is inaccurate, we may be required to advance additional funds to complete construction. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. Changes in economic conditions may cause us to incur loan losses. The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode our earnings and capital. Our loan portfolio is somewhat less diversified than that of a traditional community bank because it includes a higher concentration of larger commercial and real estate loans. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the Denver and Phoenix metropolitan areas, and any further economic decline in these 19 Table of Contents market areas could result in increased delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures, reduced collateral value and reduced demand for loans and other products and services and, accordingly, could impact us adversely. Our consumer loans generally have a higher risk of default than our other loans. Consumer loans entail greater risk than residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of damage, loss or depreciation. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various Federal and state laws, including Federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury permits Treasury to impose additional restrictions on us retroactively. The securities purchase agreement we entered into with Treasury permits Treasury to unilaterally amend the terms of the securities purchase agreement to comply with any changes in federal statutes after the date of its execution. ARRA imposed additional executive compensation and expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including us, until we have repaid Treasury. These additional restrictions may impede our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. ARRA also permits TARP recipients to repay the Treasury without penalty or requirement that additional capital be raised, subject to Treasury’s consultation with our primary federal regulator while the securities purchase agreement required that, for a period of three years, the series B preferred stock could generally only be repaid if we raised additional capital to repay the securities and such capital qualified as Tier 1 capital. Additional unilateral changes in the securities purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The OCC, the FRB and the FDIC recently finalized joint supervisory guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides 20 Table of Contents institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. Lending and risk management practices of the Company will be taken into account in supervisory evaluation of capital adequacy. Our commercial real estate portfolio at December 31, 2008 meets the definition of commercial real estate concentration as set forth in the final guidelines. If our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs. To the extent that any of the real estate securing our loans becomes subject to environmental liabilities, the value of our collateral will be diminished. In certain situations, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations as well as the common law, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on such property or damage to property or personal injury. Such laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator was responsible for the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which properties may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures by one or more of our borrowers. Such laws may be amended so as to require compliance with stringent standards which could require one or more of our borrowers to make unexpected expenditures, some of which could be substantial. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. One or more of our borrowers may be responsible for such costs which would diminish the value of our collateral. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated property could be substantial and require a material portion of the cash flow of one or more of our borrowers, which would diminish the ability of any such borrowers to repay our loans. Changes in interest rates may affect our profitability. Our profitability is, in part, a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans, and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities structures are such that they are affected differently by a change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in interest rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed-rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We have traditionally managed our assets and liabilities in such a way that we have a positive interest rate gap. As a general rule, banks with positive interest rate gaps are more likely to be susceptible to declines in net interest income in periods of falling interest rates and are more likely to experience increases in net interest income in periods of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their loans. Our ability to grow is substantially dependent upon our ability to increase our deposits. Our primary source of funding growth is through deposit accumulation. Our ability to attract deposits is significantly influenced by general economic conditions, changes in money market rates, prevailing interest rates and competition. If we are not successful in increasing our current deposit base to a level commensurate with our funding needs, we may have to seek alternative higher cost wholesale financing sources or curtail our growth. Our fee-based businesses are subject to quarterly and annual volatility in their revenues and earnings. Our fee-based businesses have historically experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, quarterly and annual volatility in revenues and earnings. With respect to our investment banking services 21 Table of Contents segment, GMB, the delay in the initiation or the termination of a major new client engagement, or any changes in the anticipated closing date of client transactions can directly affect revenues and earnings for a particular quarter or year. With respect to our insurance segment, CoBiz Insurance Inc. and FDL., our revenues and earnings also can experience quarterly and annual volatility, depending on the timing of the initiation or termination of a major new client engagement. In addition, a substantial portion of the revenues and earnings of our insurance segment are often generated during our fourth quarter as many of their clients seek to finalize their wealth transfer and estate plans by year end. With respect to our investment advisory businesses, ACMG and Wagner, our revenues and earnings are dependent on the value of our assets under management, which in turn are heavily dependent upon general conditions in debt and equity markets. Any significant volatility in debt or equity markets are likely to directly affect revenues and earnings of ACMG and Wagner for a particular quarter or year. We must evaluate whether any portion of our recorded goodwill is impaired. Impairment testing may result in a material, non-cash write-down of our goodwill assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. At December 31, 2008, goodwill represented approximately 1.7% of our total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we must test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually (or whenever events occur which may indicate possible impairment). Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, goodwill is considered impaired. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using market multiples of comparable entities, including recent transactions, or a combination of market multiples and a discounted cash flow methodology. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires a high degree of subjective management assumption. Discounted cash flow valuation models are utilized that incorporate such variables as revenue growth rates, expense trends, discount rates and terminal values. Based upon an evaluation of key data and market factors, management selects from a range the specific variables to be incorporated into the valuation model. Any changes in key assumptions about our business and its prospects, changes in market conditions or other externalities, for impairment testing purposes could result in a non-cash impairment charge and such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. We rely heavily on our management, and the loss of any of our senior officers may adversely affect our operations. Consistent with our policy of focusing growth initiatives on the recruitment of qualified personnel, we are highly dependent on the continued services of a small number of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure to recruit and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth. As part of our strategy, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo branch openings or new bank formations. We believe that it may take up to 18 months for new banking facilities to first achieve operational profitability due to the impact of overhead expenses, and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that we undertake growth initiatives, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we may acquire financial institutions and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we may not be able to adequately and profitably manage such growth. Acquiring other financial institutions and businesses involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of financial institutions and other businesses we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired banks or businesses; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; and · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. Our business and financial condition may be adversely affected by competition. The banking business in the Denver and Phoenix metropolitan areas is highly competitive and is currently dominated by a number of large regional and national financial institutions. In addition to these regional and national banks, there are a number of smaller commercial banks that operate in these areas. We compete for loans and deposits with banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies, credit unions, and mortgage bankers. In addition to traditional financial institutions, we also compete for loans with brokerage and investment banking companies, and governmental agencies that make available low-cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Particularly in times of high interest rates, we also face significant competition for deposits from sellers of short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. In addition, during 2008 a number of traditional investment banks converted into bank holding companies, which may increase competition for deposits. By virtue of their larger capital bases or affiliation with larger multibank holding companies, many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and lending limits than we have and perform other functions that we offer only through correspondents. Interstate banking and unlimited state-wide branch banking are permitted in Colorado and Arizona. As a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, greater competition in our primary service areas. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by competition, including any increase in competition. Moreover, recently enacted and proposed legislation has focused on expanding the ability of participants in the banking and thrift industries to engage in other lines of business. The enactment of such legislation could put us at a competitive disadvantage because we may not have the capital to participate in other lines of business to the same extent as more highly capitalized financial service holding companies. We may be required to make capital contributions to the Bank if it becomes undercapitalized. Under federal law, a bank holding company may be required to guarantee a capital plan filed by an undercapitalized bank subsidiary with its primary regulator. If the subsidiary defaults under the plan, the holding company may be required to contribute to the capital of the subsidiary bank in an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the Bank’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount necessary to bring the Bank into compliance with applicable capital standards. Therefore, it is possible that we will be required to contribute capital to our subsidiary bank or any other bank that we may acquire in the event that such bank becomes undercapitalized. If we are required to make such capital contribution at a time when we have other significant capital needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of 23 Table of Contents technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or shareholders. As a financial holding company, we are also subject to extensive regulation by the FRB, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory organizations. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting at the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Management, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system. Although management has determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective at December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that we will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may 24 Table of Contents experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 