Risk Factors in Item 3 of this Annual Report. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this Annual Report as well as in other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). NOTE REGARDING FINANCIAL PRESENTATION The financial data contained in this Annual Report were derived from our consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 2 PART I Item 3. Key Information SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and selected consolidated balance sheets data as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, were derived from the consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. The selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, and selected consolidated balance sheets data at March 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Group previously filed with the SEC. In May 2004, we completed the sale of Hua Yang, the operations of which were reported as discontinued operations in the selected consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002. As described in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, Zindart Manufacturing’s operations were reported as discontinued operations as of March 31, 2005, and accordingly, the assets and liabilities associated with Zindart Manufacturing as of March 31, 2005 and the related results of operations were presented as discontinued operations in the previously reported selected consolidated statements of operations data. As of March 31, 2006, due to circumstances that previously were considered unlikely, Zindart Manufacturing’s operations no longer met the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations, and accordingly the results of operations associated with Zindart Manufacturing for each of the years in the four-year period ended March 31, 2005 have been reclassified to present Zindart Manufacturing as held and used for continuing operations. The assets and liabilities associated with Zindart Manufacturing as of March 31, 2006 were reclassified in the consolidated balance sheet data as held and used; however, corresponding amounts shown at March 31, 2005 were not reclassified. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 5 and Item 18 of this Annual Report. 3 Year Ended March 31,< /div> 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Net sales $ 76,394 $ 92,740 $ 95,819 $ 83,357 $ 92,481 Cost of goods sold (61,338 ) (69,160 ) (65,300 ) (52,413 ) (64,231 ) Gross profit 15,056 23,580 30,519 30,944 28,250 Selling, general, and administrative font> expenses (27,905 ) (30,965 ) (32,531 ) (27,729 ) (32,266 ) Amortization of goodwill - - - - (1,376 ) Impairment loss on goodwill (18,782 ) - - - - Impairment loss on long-lived assets (1,439 ) - - - - Operating (loss) income (33,070 ) (7,385 ) (2,012 ) 3,215 (5,392 ) Other (expense) income: Interest income 85 138 39 111 240 Interest expense (1,038 ) (1,204 ) (905 ) (1,372 ) (1,997 ) Other income (loss) 446 104 (130 ) (145 ) 42 (Loss) income before income taxes and minority interest (33,577 ) (8,347 ) (3,008 ) 1,809 (7,107 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1,907 ) 612 (121 ) (145 ) 470 (Loss) income before minority interest (35,484 ) (7,735 ) (3,129 ) 1,664 (6,637 ) Minority interest 31 (138 ) (298 ) (191 ) (210 ) (Loss) income from continuing operations (35,453 ) (7,873 ) (3,427 ) 1,473 (6,847 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax - 352 (1,882 ) 1,092 (1,398 ) (Loss) income before extraordinary items (35,453 ) (7,521 ) (5,309 ) 2,565 (8,245 ) Extraordinary gain, net of nil tax 98 418 - - - Net (loss) income $ (35,355 ) $ (7,103 ) $ (5,309 ) $ 2,565 $ (8,245 ) 4 Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except share data) (Loss) earnings per common share: Basic: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (3.63 ) $ (0.83 ) $ (0.38 ) $ 0.17 $ (0.78 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations - 0.04 (0.22 ) 0.12 (0.15 ) Extraordinary gain 0.01 0.04 - - - Net (loss) income $ (3.62 ) $ (0.75 ) $ (0.60 ) $ 0.29 $ (0.93 ) Diluted: (Loss) income from continuing operations $ (3.63 ) $ (0.83 ) $ (0.38 ) $ 0.16 $ (0.78 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations - 0.04 (0.22 ) 0.12 (0.15 ) Extraordinary gain 0.01 0.04 - - - Net (loss) income $ (3.62 ) $ (0.75 ) $ (0.60 ) $ 0.28 $ (0.93 ) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: (1) Basic 9,763,957 9,487,129 8,907,015 8,834,125 8,834,125 Diluted 9,763,957 9,487,129 8,907,015 9,044,122 8,834,125 Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 820 $ 7,012 $ 1,539 $ 1,973 $ 3,425 Assets of discontinued operations - 29,243 31,712 - - Liabilities of discontinued operations - 23,073 18,068 - - Working capital (2) (6,630 ) 12,692 (3,305 ) (1,022 ) (8,501 ) Property, plant, and equipment and land use rights, net 17,392 7,933 23,386 30,709 31,152 Total assets 60,029 98,644 131,542 125,821 124,026 Short-term debt, current installments of long-term debt and obligations under capital leases 11,412 3,876 12,480 16,639 26,586 Long-term debt and obligations under capital leases, excluding current installments 219 - 701 3,588 252 Stockholders’ equity 27,487 63,053 68,190 70,574 66,504 ___________ (1) Stock options outstanding for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were not included in computing diluted (loss) earnings per common share since their effects were anti-dilutive due to the net loss from continuing operations for the year. The difference between basic and diluted weighted average number of common shares for the year ended March 31, 2003 is due to the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding by application of the treasury stock method. Stock options and convertible note outstanding for the year ended March 31, 2002 were not included in computing diluted (loss) earnings per common share because their effects were anti-dilutive due to the net loss from continuing operations for the year. (2) Working capital is equal to current assets less current liabilities. At March 31, 2002, net current liabilities included the reclassification of long-term debt of approximately $6.0 million as current liabilities as a result of our breach of certain financial covenants under our banking facilities. 5 RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We have incurred losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We have had a history of operating and net losses. We had an operating loss of $33.1 million and a net loss of $35.4 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, and an operating loss of $7.4 million and a net loss of $7.1 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. We cannot provide any assurance that operating profitability or net profitability can be achieved or sustained due to several factors including, but not limited to: • as we seek to achieve organic growth or growth through acquisitions, additional investment in product development activities will be necessary; • product costs and profit margins may be unfavorably impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations, particularly appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and the Euro; • changes in accounting standards such as recognition of compensation costs relating to employee stock option plan in accordance to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share Based Payment” will increase our operating expenses; • competition in the toy industry will continue to exert price pressure, unfavorably impacting our net sales; • we may be required to record goodwill impairment charges relating to our previous or future acquisitions, such as the $18.8 million goodwill impairment charge taken in the year ended March 31, 2006; • ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to increase general and administrative expenses; • we may fail to achieve our current strategic initiatives to increase market awareness of the company, our products and our brands. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and cannot be reduced quickly if actual revenues are lower than expected. As a result of such fixed expenses, revenue shortfalls could result in lower profitability or result in greater losses than anticipated for any given period. Our ability to operate as a going concern caused by a deterioration in our liquidity and the availability of trade credit on favorable terms. The consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report were prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business are dependent on, among other things, our ability to operate profitably, to generate cash flows from operations, and maintain credit facilities adequate to support our working capital requirements. As discussed below, we have continued to suffer recurring losses from operations and generate negative cash flows that raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans in regard to these matters are also described below. The consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 6 We continue to face difficult market conditions, which have caused significant operating losses and placed considerable pressure on our liquidity. We have incurred significant operating losses and net losses in each of the three years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2006. As of March 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $15.8 million. As of March 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $0.8 million, and available credit facilities of $15.3 million of which $10.8 million were utilized as borrowings. As of March 31, 2006, our Corgi division had $4.4 million in available credit under our bank lines, and our Zindart Manufacturing division had $10.9 million in available credit under our bank lines. The available banking facilities of $15.3 million reflected a temporary reduction of banking facilities from the Agricultural Bank of China (“ABC”) from $7.4 million to $3.3 million as of March 31, 2006 due to macro-economic controls in the PRC under which limits had been placed on ABC’s authority to lend to its banking clients. As of August 22, 2006, we have been repaying amounts drawn on our banking facilities in accordance with the repayment terms. As of March 31, 2006, we had breached certain financial undertakings in respect to our bank facilities with KBC Bank N.V. (“KBC”) and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (“HSBC”). We did not meet minimum financial ratios related to consolidated tangible net worth, consolidated net borrowings to consolidated tangible net worth, current assets to current liabilities, interest coverage, and consolidated profits before interest and tax. The lenders have not notified us that we are in a state of default, and we have continued to maintain banking relationships with each of these financial institutions. For both facilities, the lenders have the right to demand payment of all amounts owed at any time, irrespective of whether we had complied with the financial undertakings. As of March 31, 2006, total outstanding borrowings under these two credit facilities amounted to $3.2 million. With respect to our facility with KBC, as of March 31, 2006, the lender had suspended further utilization of the credit facility. Total outstanding borrowing under this credit facility amounted to $1.3 million as of March 31, 2006. On April 24, 2006, a repayment schedule was agreed with the lender whereby we have agreed to repay $150,000 per month, with the remaining balance to be repaid by November 26, 2006. With respect to our facility with HSBC, the lender has revised the terms of the credit facility by reducing the available amount to be withdrawn from $2.6 million to $2.1 million and requiring us to maintain a $1.0 million restricted cash deposit with the lender. As of August 22, 2006, we had not signed the revised agreement as we are still in negotiation with the lender with respect to the term requiring us to place a $1.0 million restricted deposit with the lender. As of March 31, 2006, the total amount outstanding under this facility amounted to $1.9 million. In April 2006, we responded to the liquidity deterioration by issuing convertible notes and warrants in a private placement for aggregate proceeds amounting to $5.7 million (see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report) and, in June 2006, replacing our existing $4.4 million overdraft facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (“RBS”) with an $8.7 million receivable discounting facility with Coface Receivables Finance Limited. However, the utilization of the receivable discounting facility will depend on actual sales levels. The amount available for utilization under the discounting facility will be less than the amount available under the RBS overdraft facility to the extent actual sales are lower than historical sales. The proceeds of the private placement have been substantially utilized as required to fund working capital deficits. In the event that market conditions and demand for our products continue to deteriorate and decline, causing operating losses and negative cash flows from operations to continue and, despite our best efforts, we are unable to secure additional financing sources from lenders and/or other parties to fund our operations and obligations, we will be required to dispose of business units or assets, perhaps at a significant discount to the fair value thereof, seek bankruptcy protection or commence liquidation or other administrative proceedings. 7 We plan to engage in acquisition or mergers, which may affect the profit, loss, revenues, profit margins, capital expenditures or other aspects of our business. We plan to engage in acquisitions or mergers, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, capital expenditures, or other aspects of our business. However, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, we will be able to acquire these targets on acceptable terms or agree to terms with merger partners. In addition, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in integrating any acquired company into our overall operations, or that any such acquired company will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. We anticipate that additional financing will be required to support any such acquisitions or mergers. Such financings could result in dilution to existing shareholders or the related cost of the financings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition. Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our toy products. Consumer preferences, particularly among collectors of die-cast vehicle model products, change constantly. In addition, the toy industry experiences significant, sudden shifts in demand caused by “hit” toys and trends, which are often unpredictable. We compete with many other toy companies, both large and small, which means that our market position is always at risk. In branded toys and collectibles, we compete with numerous companies with large intellectual property portfolios located all over the world including, but not limited to, Mattel, Hasbro, Funrise, Dragon, Armour/Franklin Mint, IXO, Model Power, Forces of Valor, and Die Cast Promotions. These companies have greater resources to develop new products and market their existing products. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share in each of our product categories, and establish market share in new product categories, will depend on our ability to satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of these products. In recent years there have been trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products, driven in part by an increasing use of more sophisticated technology in toys. As a result, we must also compete with many other companies, including the makers of consumer electronic products, to meet the entertainment demands of our customers. If we do not successfully meet the challenges outlined above in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for our products could decrease and our revenues, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected. In die-cast and injection-molded collectibles and collectible holiday ornaments manufacturing, Zindart Manufacturing competes with contract manufacturers located primarily in the PRC. In addition, Zindart Manufacturing competes with customers that have the capability to manufacture their products internally. Any determination by a principal customer to manufacture new products internally or to move manufacturing from the Group to another third party could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe that there are any significant barriers to entry into the light manufacturing business. We have no registered trademarks in respect of our manufacturing businesses. Accordingly, additional participants may enter the market at any time. 8 Our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief U.S. and European winter holiday season. Improved inventory management by retailers resulting in shorter lead times for production and possible shipping disruptions during peak demand times may affect our ability to deliver our products in time to meet retailer demands. Our business is subject to risks associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Sales of toy products at retail are seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December. As a result, our annual operating results depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season. Retailers are attempting to manage their inventories better, requiring us to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. This in turn results in shorter lead times for production. We believe that the increase in “last minute” shopping during the holiday season and the popularity of gift cards (which often result in purchases after the holiday season) may negatively impact customer re-orders during the holiday season. Shipping disruptions limiting the availability of ships or containers in Asia during peak demand times may affect our ability to deliver our products in time to meet retailer demand. These factors may decrease sales or increase the risk that we may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times, or that our own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Zindart Manufacturing normally ceases manufacturing operations for a two-week period during January or February of each year due to the Chinese New Year holiday, which is partially responsible for net sales during the fourth fiscal quarter of each year being lower than net sales during the other three fiscal quarters. Additionally, Zindart Manufacturing ceases production for a week during October due to Chinese National Day holiday. We depend on major vendors for a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements. We utilize several OEM manufacturers, all based in the PRC, to produce our products. Our Zindart Manufacturing division produces almost two-thirds of our Corgi division products. Our OEM manufacturers may decide not to continue producing our products. Several quality manufacturing alternatives may be available in the PRC, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to find alternate producers on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, prices charged by the alternate vendors may be higher than charged by our current OEM manufacturers. The related price increases could unfavorably impact our financial results. One of our major vendors has determined not to produce products for Corgi beyond September 2006. An alternate vendor has been identified and only nominal delays are anticipated as a result of the move to the new vendor. Nevertheless, production delays can and may occur during the effort to transfer to the new vendor. In addition, other production delays have occurred during late fiscal year 2006 and during fiscal year 2007 that have served to delay sales of products to our customers. Such delays are not anticipated to continue beyond fiscal year 2007, but we can not assure that such delays will not continue. We have limited negotiating power with our customers, and if our costs increase, our financial results may be adversely affected. We have little price negotiating power with regard to our mass-market toys, as several companies are competing to sell similar products to the same major retailers. Many substitutes to our toy products are available in the market. Moreover, the large mass retailers have low margins and are price sensitive. The toy industry is mature and retailers have access to and are able to evaluate market information. As a result, we are unlikely to offset cost increases by increasing the prices we charge our customers. 9 The concentration of our business with a small customer base that make no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers, and the credit collection risk they pose, could have a significant impact on our business and operating results. A small number of customers account for a large share of our net sales. In the year ended March 31, 2006, our five largest customers, four of whom were Zindart Manufacturing customers, accounted for approximately 42.6% of net sales. The concentration of our business with a relatively small number of customers may expose us to significantly decreased revenues and profits if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce purchases for any reason. Customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. Any customer could reduce its overall purchases of our products, reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products, or otherwise seek to materially change the terms of the business relationship at any time. Any such change could significantly harm our business and operating results. Our most significant customers include Hallmark Cards, Inc. (“Hallmark”), Jada Toys, Inc. (“Jada”) and Mattel® Toys (“Mattel”), all of whom are customers of Zindart Manufacturing. Sales to Hallmark, Jada and Mattel represented 16.2%, 11.9%, and 7.8%, respectively, of the total net sales for the year ended March 31, 2006. Our dependence on our major customers is expected to continue in the foreseeable future. The loss of any one of our major customers, particularly Hallmark, Mattel or Jada, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. None of our major customers is obligated under a long-term purchase contract. Instead, sales transactions with all of our customers are based on purchase orders received by us from time to time, which purchase orders are subject to cancellation. In addition, our sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral. Our five largest trade accounts receivable accounted for approximately 40.4% of our total gross trade accounts receivable as of March 31, 2006. Customers may not pay amounts due to us, or such payments may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond our control, increasing our exposure to losses from bad debts. In addition, if these or other customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends on continued market acceptance of our products and on the strength of various foreign economies. There can be no assurance that our existing or future products or our customers will continue to receive substantial market acceptance. In addition, because a significant portion of the products we manufacture and sell are sold in the United States and the United Kingdom, our profitability also depends on the strength of the U.S. and U.K. economies, which can affect U.S. and U.K. consumers’ spending habits on such items as die-cast collectibles. Any downturn in the U.S. or U.K. economies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Our long-term operating results depend in part upon the ability of the customers of Zindart Manufacturing to continue to conceive of, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of its customers’ existing and future products. In the ordinary course of their businesses, the customers of Zindart Manufacturing continuously develop new products and create additions to their existing product lines. Significant delays by the customers of Zindart Manufacturing in the introduction of, or their failure to introduce or market, new products or additions to their respective product lines would impair our results of operations. Changing consumer tastes and interests, which are difficult to predict and over which the customers of Zindart Manufacturing may have little control, affect the die-cast and injection-molded collectibles and collectible holiday ornaments markets. These products have limited life cycles and may be discontinued by the customer at any time. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our existing or future products or our customers’ products will continue to receive substantial market acceptance. Disruption of access to our production facilities may unfavorably impact our profitability. Zindart Manufacturing’s die-cast and injection-molded collectibles and collectible holiday ornaments production facilities are located in Dongguan, PRC (the “Dongguan Facility”). If the Dongguan Facility were to become unavailable or inoperable, as a result of a natural disaster or otherwise, Zindart Manufacturing would need to obtain alternative facilities to conduct its operations. This could result in significantly increased operating costs and significant delays in the fulfillment of customer orders. No assurance can be given that alternative facilities could be obtained at an affordable price or at all. Such increased costs or delays, or inability to obtain alternative facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption of operations at the Dongguan Facility due to fire, labor dispute, dispute with the local government or otherwise, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In such event, we believe that it could partially mitigate the effect of a disruption by increasing the use of subcontractors to assemble its products, but there can be no assurance that it would be able to do so. We are dependent on certain raw materials. We use zinc alloy and various plastic resins in our manufacturing operations. Our financial performance is dependent, to a substantial extent, on the cost of such raw materials. The supply and demand for zinc alloy and for both plastic resins and the petrochemical intermediates from which plastic resins are produced are subject to cyclical and other market factors and may fluctuate significantly. As a result, our cost of raw materials is subject to substantial increases and decreases over which we have no control except by seeking to time our purchases in order to take advantage of favorable market conditions. In the past, we have experienced significant increases in the price of certain raw materials, which resulted in increases in our production costs that we were not able to pass on fully to our customers. To the extent that future increases in the cost of raw materials cannot be passed on to customers, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no master agreements with any of our suppliers to secure a stable source of raw materials. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of such raw materials to meet our needs. We believe that we could continue to obtain needed raw materials in the event that we experience significant rapid growth, in light of the current availability of such raw materials on the world markets. Any lack of sufficient raw materials for our needs would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, to the extent we are unable to obtain needed raw materials in such circumstances in sufficient quantities or at affordable prices, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 The impairment of our goodwill may affect our financial results. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we recognized $18.4 million of impairment to goodwill related to the acquisition of our Corgi division in July 1999. The impairment loss arises as the implied fair value of the goodwill of Corgi was $16.9 million, which was lower than the carrying amount of goodwill of $35.3 million. The facts and circumstances leading to the goodwill impairment charge were primarily due to lower expected future cash flows as a result of poor customer reception of Corgi’s products in the weak retail environment in the United Kingdom, and reduced gross profit margins due to a shift in Corgi sales mix towards more low-margin mass-market products. In addition, in connection with the reclassification of Zindart Manufacturing as held and used, the Company recorded an impairment charge of goodwill of $414,000. After recording the impairment charge, the carrying amount of goodwill was $16.9 million as of March 31, 2006. Any further deterioration of the expected future performance of the Corgi division may further reduce the estimated fair value of the reporting unit and lead to recognition of additional goodwill impairment. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, absence or cost of insurance, and administrative costs associated with recalls could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. We are subject to regulation by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities, and our products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by these authorities. Concerns about product safety may lead us to voluntarily recall selected products. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, defects or errors in products after their production and sale to customers. These defects or errors could result in the rejection of our products by customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs, any of which could harm our business. Individuals could sustain injuries from our products, and we have in the past and may be in the future subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from these injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Recalls, post-manufacture repairs of our products, absence or cost of insurance, and administrative costs associated with recalls could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. Failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of our business depends to a large degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets in the U.S., the U.K. and around the world. Any failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information, including any successful challenge to our ownership of our intellectual property or material infringements of our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are based in the PRC, where product piracy and counterfeiting activities are widespread. Although we make significant efforts to prevent piracy and counterfeiting of our products, we can make no assurances that such activities will not occur, as certain of these activities may be beyond our reasonable control. We incur expenses related to policing and other prevention efforts against piracy and counterfeiting, and may lose legitimate sales of our product when and where pirated or counterfeited product has been sold. We do not believe that such activities have materially impacted our historical operating results, but can provide no assurance whether heightened piracy and counterfeiting activities may materially impact our future operating results. 12 We are subject to potential costs and expenses related to environmental matters. Our manufacturing operations involve the use of certain toxic substances, including plastic resins, oil-based paints and cleaning solvents. We are, and are likely to continue to be, subject to PRC national, provincial and local environmental protection laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations currently impose a uniform fee on industrial wastewater discharges and a graduated schedule of pollution fees for the discharge into the environment of waste substances in excess of applicable standards, require the payment of fines for violations of laws and regulations or decrees and provide for possible closure by the central, provincial or local government of any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure certain activities deemed by such authorities to be causing environmental damage. We currently dispose of our waste substances in a manner we believe is consistent with similarly situated companies operating in the PRC. Such disposal practices may not be consistent with those of companies operating in the U.S. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and will avoid incurring the consequences of non-compliance, or that PRC authorities will not impose additional regulatory requirements that would necessitate additional expenditures for environmental compliance. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not aware of any claims related to environmental contamination, and have not accrued any amounts to cover such claims. If we fail to attract and retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our success is substantially dependent upon our executive management, as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified design, manufacturing and marketing personnel. The loss of any of our current executive management team for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the beneficiaries of any “key person” life insurance policy on any such person. Substantially all of our production workers are young women and men who come from various rural provinces in the PRC for the purpose of working for wages higher than are available in such rural regions. These production workers typically work for us for two to five years and then return to their communities. In addition, approximately 5%-10% of the production workers do not return each year after the Chinese New Year holiday, and we must hire replacements. If these production workers were able to earn similar wages in their home provinces or higher wages in other industries, we could experience labor shortages or could be required to increase salaries to meet our labor needs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our employees are not unionized, and we have not experienced any labor strikes. Union organizing and worker unrest are not common in the PRC; however, no assurance can be given that labor conflicts will not develop. Any labor conflicts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our manufacturing customers to comply with governmental regulations: we could be subject to substantial penalties and/or loss of business if such compliance is not maintained. Our U.S. customers are subject to the provisions of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act and the Federal Consumer Product Safety Act. These laws empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to protect consumers from hazardous toys and other articles. The CPSC has the authority to exclude products from the market that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and can require a recall of such products under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the U.S., as well as in foreign jurisdictions. We rely on our customers to design products that comply with such safety standards and to test the products to ensure compliance with applicable regulatory safety standards. 13 While we believe that our customers design and test the products we manufacture for compliance with regulatory standards, and we maintain quality assurance procedures, there can be no assurance that our products will not be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that our products will not be marketed in the future in countries with more restrictive laws, rules and regulations, either of which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our exports to foreign countries may be limited by applicable tariffs and quotas. Most of our products are shipped to customers in the U.S. and the U.K.. The U.S. and U.K. may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other charges or restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to export products to the U.S. or U.K. at current or increased levels. We cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur, if any, or the type or extent of any financial impact on us that such changes may have in the future. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. Adverse changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The title to a portion of our PRC land is impaired. We have a 50-year lease to land use for our PRC-based factory supported by four land use certificates. All such land use certificates are valid and enforceable; however, Land Use Certificate for State-Owned Land, Dongguan Government State-Owned (1993) No. 49. has not been registered properly by the local PRC land title registry. This defect impairs our ability to sell such land use rights until when and if the local PRC land title registry corrects the registration. We are currently working with the local PRC land title registry to effect the rectification process, but cannot provide any assurances of when or if such rectification can be completed. This defect impairs not only our ability to sell the specific land in question, but the buildings upon the land as well. Country Risks We have a significant investment in the PRC, and we may be negatively affected by political, social and economic instability in the PRC or elsewhere. The political, social and economic environment in the PRC may have an adverse impact on our investment in the PRC. The PRC is controlled by the Communist Party of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization; however, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation or reform money-losing state-owned enterprises, the inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure or the unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts, or a deterioration of the general political, economic or social environment in the PRC, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a deterioration of political relations between the U.S. and the PRC or the U.K. and the PRC may adversely affect our business. 14 The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Accordingly, PRC government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support current economic reform programs and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic reform policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof. Any such developments could affect current operations of and property ownership by foreign investors. In addition, our administrative, finance and accounting activities are located in Hong Kong. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political situation in Hong Kong and by the general state of the Hong Kong economy. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the general political, social and economic situation in the PRC, Hong Kong, the U.K. and the U.S. Accordingly, we may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs, duties and quotas. Our business may be materially affected by changing regulations and policies in the PRC. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system in the U.S. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of law governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation. In addition, the legal system of the PRC relating to foreign investments is both new and continually evolving, and currently there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published, statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting, and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation, discretion and modification, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. As the legal system in the PRC develops with respect to these new types of enterprises, foreign investors may be adversely affected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof) and the preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. In circumstances where adequate laws exist, it may not be possible to obtain timely and equitable enforcement thereof. Our activities in the PRC are by law subject, in some circumstances, to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of the PRC government. Although we believe that the present level of support from local, provincial and national governmental entities we enjoy benefits our operations in connection with administrative review and the receipt of approvals, there is no assurance that such approvals, when necessary or advisable in the future, will be forthcoming. The inability to obtain such approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 1, 1997, sovereignty over Hong Kong was transferred from the U.K. to the PRC, and Hong Kong became a Special Administrative Region (“SAR”) of the PRC. As provided in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong and the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR of the PRC (the “Basic Law”), the Hong Kong SAR is to have a high degree of autonomy from PRC except in foreign affairs and defense. Under the Basic Law, the Hong Kong SAR has its own legislature, legal and judicial system and economic autonomy for 50 years. Based on current political conditions and our understanding of the Basic Law, we do not believe that the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong has had or will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that changes in political, legal or other conditions will not result in such an adverse effect. 15 On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced the end of the Renminbi (“RMB”) peg to the U.S. dollar. The bank increased the value of the RMB to 8.11 to one U.S. dollar - a 2.1% increase in its value - and decreed that henceforth the RMB would trade within a narrow band of 0.3% each day against a basket of currencies. Eliminating the dollar peg is seen by some economists as a first step toward a free-floating, and stronger, RMB. However, uncertainty exists as to whether the PRC’s new currency policy will support further appreciation of the RMB. Since we source most of our finished products in the PRC, the appreciation of RMB will increase our product costs and may reduce our sales, especially to U.S. and European distributors and retailers. Risks associated with our American Depositary Shares As a foreign private issuer, we have limited reporting requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules and regulations of the Exchange Act, including those prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Also, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to publish financial statements as frequently, as promptly or containing the same information as U.S. companies. There is a limited and volatile public market for our ADSs. The public trading volume of our ADSs is limited. We can provide no assurance that a more active trading market for the ADSs will develop or that, if developed, it will be sustained. Further, there is no public market for the Ordinary Shares underlying the ADSs. In the past several years, many foreign issuers with market capitalization similar to ours have been unable to sustain an active trading market for their securities. The market price for the ADSs going forward may be highly volatile, as has been the case with the ADSs and the securities of other companies located in emerging market countries. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate substantially in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Item 