D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We may be unable to operate as a going concern due to deterioration in our liquidity and the unavailability of trade credit on favorable terms. We may be required to file for bankruptcy protection for the Company or one or more of its operating subsidiaries if we can not find immediate equity or debt financing or a buyer for the business, and we may need to immediately reduce the size of the business. We continue to face extremely difficult market conditions and has not been able to secure long-term equity or debt financing, which have caused significant operating losses and placed considerable pressure on our liquidity. We had a loss of $45.3 million and negative working capital of approximately $27.3 million for the fiscal year ended as of March 31, 2008. As of March 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $0.7 million and no available credit on our facilities of $30.0 million, of which $12.9 million were utilized as borrowings. As of September 30, 2008, we had $0.7 million in available cash and cash equivalents and no available credit on our credit facilities. Despite entering into a financing facility with Burdale Financial Limited (“Burdale”), a member of the Bank of Ireland Group, in January 2008, we were required to repay and terminate the facility in April 2008. In order to do so, we were forced to sell the trading cards business of Cards Inc. Limited and the Corgi Classics historic die-cast business. While we were able to secure $5.0 million of financing in June and August 2008 from Synergy Global Finance Master Fund Limited, we need to immediately secure adequate equity or debt financing. If we fail to obtain such financing, we may be required to sell our remaining assets and businesses or potentially seek bankruptcy protection for the Company or one or more of its operating subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain financing, in order to avoid bankruptcy, we may seek to negotiate with our creditors for reduction of our indebtedness in exchange for discounts on our securities which may require significant dilution to our shareholders. We may need to effect a very significant reduction of force to focus on our core products in order to avoid filing for bankruptcy until the capital markets strengthen. In September 2008, PopCo Classics Limited (formerly Corgi Classics Limited) in the United Kingdom, had a number of creditors file Winding Up Petitions in the courts each seeking repayment of outstanding debts in the aggregate amount of £360,402. The petitions will be heard on October 22, 2008. The ramifications of these proceedings may cause PopCo Classics Limited to liquidate its remaining assets in the United Kingdom. We have retained legal counsel in the United Kingdom regarding these actions and have advised our secured lenders (Coface and Synergy) of the situation, who may foreclose on the assets of the company. Also, Pacific Industries Int. has filed a lawsuit against Master Replicas Inc. in Los Angeles, California seeking the payment of approximately $2.9 million. The consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 18 of this Annual Report were prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business are dependent on, among other things, our ability to operate profitably, to generate cash flows from operations, and maintain credit facilities adequate to support our working capital requirements. As discussed below, we have continued to suffer recurring losses from operations and generate negative cash flows that raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 18 of this Annual Report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 7 We may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market System Our ADSs are currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are unable to maintain the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, including with respect to our minimum share price, obtaining a new independent director and minimum market value of publicly traded securities as required by the NASDAQ rules, which we currently do not meet, our ADSs could be delisted from trading on this market. Consequently, selling and buying our securities would be more difficult because of the absence of a regular market for our ADSs, reduced liquidity due to lower trading volume, delays in the timing of transactions, greater difficulty in disposing of securities and obtaining accurate quotations, and possible reduction in securities analysts’ and the news media coverage of our Company. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our ADSs than might otherwise be obtained, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. On June 16, 2008, the staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. indicated that we are not in compliance with The Nasdaq Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing because, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our ADSs has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). We have until December 15, 2008 (180 days from June 16, 2008) to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. We can regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule if the bid price of our ADSs closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days before December 15, 2008. If compliance is not achieved by December 15, 2008, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification to us that our securities will be delisted. On September 30, 2008, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that for the last 30 consecutive trading days, our ADS have not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares (“MVPHS”) of $5,000,000 as required for continued inclusion by Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2) (the “Rule”). Therefore, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(1), we have been provided 90 calendar days, or until December 29, 2008, to regain compliance. If we fail to comply with the Rule by December 29, 2008, Staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. Also, as a result of John Clough’s resignation on October 6, 2008, we are not in compliance with the minimum number of independent directors for the Board and the Audit Committee of the Board as required by NASDAQ rules. We have 180 days from the date of Mr. Clough’s resignation to find a replacement for Mr. Clough or NASDAQ will provide us written notification of delisting. If we receive a delisting notification from NASDAQ, we may appeal the Staff’s determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. We may seek to apply to transfer our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market. If Staff does not approve any transfer application, Staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. We have incurred losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced a history of operating and net losses. We had an operating loss of $43.7 million and a net loss of $45.3 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. We cannot provide any assurance that operating profitability or net profitability can be achieved or sustained due to several factors, including, but not limited to: • we need additional capital to effect our business plan and to make additional investment in product development and growth activities, and the cost of capital, and any inability to raise additional capital, may limit our growth and reduce our profitability; • as we seek to achieve organic growth or growth through acquisitions, additional investment in product development activities will be necessary; 8 • we may fail to achieve our current strategic initiatives to increase market awareness of the Company, our products and our brands; • many of our expenses are fixed, and cannot be reduced if actual revenues are lower than expected. As a result of such fixed expenses, revenue shortfalls could result in lower profitability or greater losses than anticipated for any given period, which could have a negative impact on our share price; • competition in the collectibles, gift and toy industries is expected to continue to exert price pressure and we may also face continued pressure from retailers to reduce our margins, which will unfavorably effect our net sales; • we may face increased costs relating to licensing of entertainment franchises and we may not be able to obtain licenses for popular entertainment franchises in the future, either of which could negatively affect our sales and profitability; • our expenses may increase due to increased manufacturing costs, including higher labor and raw materials costs, such as zinc for our die-cast products. In addition, recently imposed requirements for additional lead testing at manufacturing facilities will further increase our manufacturing costs; • product costs and profit margins may be unfavorably affected due to foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound; • customer defaults, bankruptcies or poor financial conditions could result in the loss of revenue or the decision not to continue, or to reduce, business with customers; • ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to increase general and administrative expenses; • changes in accounting standards, such as recognition of compensation costs relating to employee stock option plans in accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share Based Payment”, will increase our operating expenses; and • changes in regulatory law, taxes or the overall political conditions in China may cause an increase in our operating expenses. Product liability, product quality controls, product recalls and other claims relating to the use of our product, as well as compliance with governmental regulations by our manufacturing customers, could increase our costs. Since we sell collectibles, gifts and toys to consumers, our company faces product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations in multiple jurisdictions. If we fail to comply with these regulations or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed our product liability insurance coverage, currently in the amount of $35 million, and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. In addition, our licenses may give the licensor the right to terminate the license if any products marketed under the license are subject to a product liability claim, recall or similar violations of product safety regulations or if we breach covenants relating to the safety of the products or their compliance with product safety regulations. A termination of a license could adversely affect our net sales. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. We also implement quality controls with respect to our products. Monitoring the quality of products produced by third parties is expensive, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in identifying all products that do not comply with our quality standards or that we will successfully prevent such products from reaching the market. Sales of such products could negatively affect our reputation, resulting in a decrease in net sales. The industry has long recognized the risks associated with lead and participated in the establishment of federal standards for lead in children’s products over 30 years ago. In 1998, the toy industry agreed to abide by an 9 even more stringent standard for lead than required by federal regulations. While we are continually re-examining and improving our safety procedures, there is always an inherent risk that such procedures will not be followed by our manufacturers and suppliers. Competition for licenses could increase our licensing costs or limit our ability to market products. We may lose our licenses in a bankruptcy filing We market a majority of our products with licenses from other parties. These licenses are limited in scope and duration, and generally authorize the sale of specific licensed products on a nonexclusive basis. Our license agreements often require us to make minimum guaranteed royalty payments, including up-front payments in the form of letters of credit or cash that may exceed the amount we are able to generate from actual sales of the licensed products. Over the next two years, license agreements in connection with several of our key licensed properties are scheduled to expire, such as Harry Potter, Halo 3 and Star Trek. Our license for Star Wars products from Lucasfilm Ltd. expired on December 31, 2007. If we file for bankruptcy, we could lose one or more of our key licenses. For the year ended March 31, 2008, net sales of our products with the licensed properties of Lucasfilm Ltd. for Star Wars related products accounted for approximately 38.7% of total net sales, or approximately $33 million compared to total net sales of $85.1 million. Any termination of or failure to renew our significant licenses, or any inability to develop and enter into new licenses, could limit our ability to market our products or develop new products and could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition for licenses may require us to pay licensors higher royalties or higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain attractive licenses, thus increasing our expenses. In addition, licenses granted to other parties, whether or not exclusive, could limit our ability to market products, including products we currently market, which might cause our net sales and profitability to decline. If we fail to attract and retain qualified management and personnel, our performance may suffer. Our success is substantially dependent upon our executive management, as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified design, manufacturing and marketing personnel. In particular, we are highly reliant upon the continued involvement of Michael Cookson, our Chief Executive Officer, and Darren Epstein, former Chief Executive Officer of Cards and our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, and other members of our senior management team. After consummation of the merger with Master Replicas, Mr. Cookson entered into a three year employment contract with us to help ensure his continued management of the company, which expires on December 31, 2009. If Mr. Cookson were to terminate his employment with us, or if he does not remain employed with us after the expiration of his employment agreement, or if we were to lose any of our current executive management team members for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are not the beneficiaries of any “key person” life insurance policy for any members of our senior management as of the date hereof. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market new products and upon continuing market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. 10 Sales of a majority of our products are seasonal and dependent on the timing of movie, DVD and video game releases, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Our net sales and profitability are customarily slowest in the quarter ending March 31. However, unlike many collectible, gift and toy companies, we may benefit from Spring, Summer, Fall and holiday movie, DVD and video game releases that can help drive the sales of our products. Our quarterly results will be affected depending on whether or not we have obtained licenses for popular movie, DVD or video games released in such quarter. Quarterly variations in operating results may cause us to increase our debt levels and interest expense in any quarter and may tend to depress our stock price during such quarters. On August 14, 2008, the Warner Brothers Corporation announced the postponement of the Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince movie from November 2008 to July 2009. This change in the movie release date materially impacted the Company’s projected revenue and its ability to obtain financing. The late date of Warner Brother’s decision to postpone the movie also impacted our immediate cash flow due to investments in design, tooling, manufacturing, sales and marketing already taken place. If we fail to comply with internal controls evaluation requirements our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC pursuant to such Act. We expect compliance with these requirements to be time-consuming and expensive. If we fail to timely complete the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if we identify material weaknesses in these internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and decreased public confidence in our internal controls, which may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We have completed the SOX 302/404 assessment of internal controls. In the second quarter of calendar year 2007, we commenced review of internal control documentation within our Hong Kong and U.S. operations. We have completed certain elements of the review effort while focusing on efforts related to integration. In compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Corgi’s SOX Section 302/404 compliance/readiness activities were initiated in mid 2008, with its first internal assessment of internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Our assessment process included project planning, establishing high-level scope and risk assessment, identifying certain key relevant business and information technology processes, performing benchmark tests of design and conducting a cursory evaluation of operation effectiveness of relevant internal controls. We believe that the internal controls design assessment was performed in compliance with established PCAOB and other legislative requirements. We believe that our assessment process adequately evaluated the company’s internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have evaluated all deficiencies identified during our assessment process. Using an aggregation methodology based on general ledger account, COSO framework and/or financial disclosure item, we have identified no specific material weaknesses in the design of our controls. However, we have identified several significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Based on our assessment, we do not have a system of effective internal controls over our financial reporting. We have begun plans to significantly improve the internal controls over the course of the fiscal year ending March 2009. Current plans include the complete replacement of the financial and operational systems. Subject to our liquidity constraints, we will continue to improve our processes and intend to comply with the full compliance standard set forth in Section 368(a). Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies such as Mattel, Inc., Hasbro, Inc., RC2 and The Franklin Mint, as well as a broad range of smaller collectible, gift and toy companies. In addition, several large retailers are developing and selling their own private label collectible, gift and toy products. We compete on the basis of products, shelf-space and consumer spending. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants 11 in our markets because the collectible, gift and toy industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which will continue to fluctuate in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. We may not be able to collect our outstanding accounts receivable, and we depend on maintaining a relationship with our largest customers for the successful operation of our business. Many of our largest customers generally purchase large quantities of our products on credit, which may cause a concentration of accounts receivable among some of these customers. Our profitability may be harmed if one or more of our largest customers were unable or unwilling to pay these accounts receivable when due, or demand credits or other concessions for products they are unable to sell. For the year ended March 31, 2008, our top five customers, of which three are based in UK, one in US and one in both the US and the UK, make up 24% of our consolidated net sales. However, only one of our customers represented 12% of our consolidated net sales, whereas the remaining four customers individually represent less than 5% of our consolidated net sales. We rely on a limited number of foreign suppliers in China to manufacture substantially all of our products. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers in China to manufacture substantially all of our products. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. However, we entered into a three-year production agreement with Zindart Manufacturing Limited (historical Corgi’s former Chinese factory division) to purchase up to $7.5 million in products for the first year, $5.5 million in the second year and $5.0 million in the third year, subject to competitive pricing and other conditions. Subsequent to March 31, 2008 this production agreement has been terminated and there are no longer any long-term production contracts in place with third-party suppliers. Difficulties encountered by these suppliers such as fire, accident, natural disaster or an outbreak of a contagious disease at one or more of their facilities could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. Any of these risks could increase our expenses or reduce our net sales, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our manufacturers may decide to discontinue production of our products. Several quality manufacturing alternatives may be available in China, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to find alternate producers on a timely basis, if at all, or that alternate producers will be able to meet our quality standards. Also, prices charged by the alternate vendors may be higher than those charged by our current manufacturers. The related price increases could unfavorably affect our financial position and results of operations. Increases in the cost of the raw materials used to manufacture our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. Since our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, we do not directly purchase the raw materials used to manufacture our products. However, the prices we pay our manufacturers may increase if their raw materials, labor or other costs increase. We may not be able to pass along such price increases to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of raw materials, labor or other costs associated with the manufacturing of our products could increase our cost of sales and reduce our gross margins. For example, increases in the price of zinc, a key component in die-cast products, and increased costs in China, primarily for labor, may continue to reduce our gross margins in the future. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and in British pounds sterling. Generally, the expenses for our third-party manufacturers are denominated in Chinese Renminbi or Hong Kong dollars. As a result, any material increase in the value of the Chinese Renminbi or the Hong Kong dollar relative to the U.S. dollar or the British pound would increase our expenses and, therefore, could adversely affect our profitability. We currently do not hedge our foreign currency risk. 12 Failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of our business depends to a large degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets in the United States, the United Kingdom and around the world. Any failure to protect our proprietary intellectual property and information, including any successful challenge to our ownership of our intellectual property or material infringements of our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our manufacturing is based in China, where product piracy and counterfeiting activities have been known to be widespread. Although we make significant efforts to prevent piracy and counterfeiting of our products, we can make no assurances that such activities will not occur, as certain of these activities may be beyond our reasonable control. We incur expenses related to policing and other prevention efforts against piracy and counterfeiting, and may lose legitimate sales of our product when and where pirated or counterfeited product has been sold. We do not believe that such activities have materially affected our historical operating results, but can provide no assurance whether heightened piracy and counterfeiting activities may materially affect our future operating results. Risks Related to our Industry Our exports to foreign countries may be limited by applicable tariffs and quotas. Most of our products are shipped from our manufacturing centers and warehouses in the United States, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong to customers in the U.S. and the U.K. The U.S. and U.K. may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other charges or restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to export products to the U.S. or U.K. at current or increased levels. We cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur, if any, or the type or extent of any financial impact on us that such changes may have in the future. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. Adverse changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business may be negatively affected in the event there are any political changes or turmoil in China or with the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. We may be negatively affected by political, social and economic instability in the People’s Republic of China or elsewhere. Since substantially all our products are manufactured in China, the political, social and economic environment in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) may have an adverse impact on our business. The PRC is controlled by the Communist Party of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization; however, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation or reform money-losing state-owned enterprises, the inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure or the unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts, or a deterioration of the general political, economic or social environment in the PRC, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a deterioration of political relations between the U.S. or the U.K. and the PRC may adversely affect our business. The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Accordingly, PRC government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support current economic reform programs and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic reform policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof. Any such developments could affect current operations of and property ownership by foreign investors. In addition, part of our administrative, compliance, sourcing and accounting activities are located in Hong Kong. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the general political, social and economic situation in the 13 PRC, Hong Kong, the U.K. and the U.S. Accordingly, we may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs, duties and quotas. We may not continue to qualify as a foreign private issuer If our Board composition or the location of a majority of our assets changes, we may no longer constitute a foreign private issuer for U.S. Securities law purposes and would need to become a U.S. domestic issuer under the U.S. Securities laws. As a domestic issuer, we would be required to file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and comply with other reporting and disclosure requirements. The added costs for such additional compliance could be significant which, given our liquidity constraints, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a foreign private issuer, we have limited reporting requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which we also refer to as the Exchange Act, including those prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Also, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required to publish financial statements as frequently, as promptly or containing the same information as U.S. companies. As a result, the frequency and scope of information made publicly available may not be equivalent to that of a domestic U.S. issuer. There may not be a liquid market for our ADSs, which may cause our ADSs to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your ADSs. Although historical Corgi’s ADSs have traded on the NASDAQ Global Market since February 1997, the trading volume has been low. We cannot predict at this time if our ADSs will trade more actively in the public market. The absence of a liquid trading market could make it more difficult for you to sell your ADSs and could exert downward pressure on the price of our ADSs. Our ADSs may also be subject to delisting from Nasdaq. See — “We may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market System.” If we are a passive foreign investment company, holders of our shares and ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences. United States holders of our ADSs may experience unfavorable tax consequences if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for any year during which the U.S. holder owned our ADSs. In general, we would be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of our gross income in the taxable year is passive income, or (2) 50% or more of the average value of our assets in the taxable year produces, or is held for the production of, passive income. For example, if a U.S. holder disposes of an ADS at a gain, and during any year of its holding period we were a PFIC, then such (absent certain elections) gain would be taxable as ordinary income and not as capital gain and would be subject to additional taxation based on the length of time the U.S. holder held such stock. See the section below entitled “United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” for additional information. Holders of our ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to voting of ordinary shares and receiving certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and the Bank of New York. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of their voting rights pertaining to the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs, and the depositary has agreed that it will vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by the depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will vote the ordinary shares. This means that holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our ADSs. As a result, holders of ADSs may not receive distributions made by us. 14 Certain of our shareholders own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are less beneficial to you. As of March 31, 2008, our current executive officers, directors and shareholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding shares (as known to us or based on public filings) collectively beneficially own or control over 79.6%of our outstanding ADSs (including ownership of warrants and options exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2008). As a result, if our executive officers, directors and these shareholders were all to vote in the same way, they would have the ability to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect the price of our ADSs. We may incur liquidated damages if we fail to continue the effectiveness of our Registration Statement on Form F-3. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 20, 2006 as amended by the Amendment to Warrants, Commitment to Issue Replacement Warrants, Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement and Waiver, dated as of August 22, 2007, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the effectiveness of our Registration Statement filed on Form F-3 on April 19, 2007, until the earlier of the date all securities registered thereon has been sold or may be sold pursuant to Rule 144. Currently, all the shares registered there under may be sold under Rule 144 (other than those held by affiliates). If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our Registration Statement, we may be required to pay as liquidated damages an amount equal to 2.0% of the aggregate amount invested by such investors in such registered securities for each 30-day period or pro rata for any portion thereof following the date by which such Registration Statement ceases to be effective. 