ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If clinical trials of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, do not produce successful clinical trial results, we will be unable to commercialize these products. To receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. Failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, including the following: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing; • safety and efficacy results attained in our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax may be less positive than the results obtained in our Phase 2 clinical trials for MyVax; • costs of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • after reviewing test results, we may abandon projects that we might have previously believed to be promising; • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, on patients may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. For example, positive time-to-disease progression results in small scale Phase 2 clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of the time-to-disease progression results in larger Phase 3 clinical trials. Moreover, all preliminary clinical data reported from time to time prior to the release of final results of a trial regarding time-to-disease progression are not fully audited and have been taken from databases that have not been fully reconciled against medical records kept at the clinical sites or that may not include the most current information on patient disease progressions. The DSMB’s recommendation that we continue our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax is not indicative of the eventual outcome of the Phase 3 clinical trial. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even 23 Table of Contents after promising results in earlier clinical trials. The data collected from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We do not know whether our existing or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will prevent receipt of regulatory approval and, ultimately, commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Furthermore, because we have devoted most of our resources to the development of MyVax, our lead product candidate, we are dependent on its success. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have focused primarily on conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval for our lead product candidate, MyVax personalized immunotherapy, a patient-specific active immunotherapy that is based on the unique genetic makeup of a patient’s tumor and is designed to activate a patient’s immune system to identify and attack cancer cells. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1996. Net losses were approximately $30.4 million in 2005, approximately $27.0 million in 2004 and approximately $30.5 million in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $145.2 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial and additional Phase 2 clinical trials for MyVax and any other clinical trials that we may initiate. In addition, subject to regulatory approval of MyVax, we expect to incur sales, marketing and manufacturing expenses, including expenses associated with the build-out, equipping and qualification of a manufacturing facility. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing immunotherapeutic drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will achieve or sustain product revenues or become profitable, if ever. We currently have no source of revenue and may never become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, MyVax has not generated any revenue, and we do not know when or if MyVax will generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including: • the possibility of delays in the collection of clinical trial data and the uncertainty of the timing of the second interim analysis of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial; • the uncertainty of results of our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for MyVax; • the uncertainty of obtaining regulatory approval for MyVax, including regulatory approval for our manufacturing facility and process; • the uncertainty related to completion of build-out, equipping and qualification of our new manufacturing facility; • our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of MyVax at acceptable cost levels; and • our ability to successfully market and sell MyVax. We cannot predict when we may begin to realize product revenue. We do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability, if at all, for at least the next few years after we begin generating revenues. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. 24 Table of Contents We will need significant additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing patient-specific active immunotherapies, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing facilities and marketing immunotherapies that we may develop is expensive. We will need to raise significant additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development activities; • complete the build-out, equipping and qualification of a manufacturing facility; and • commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, if any such immunotherapies receive regulatory approval. We believe that our current cash resources, including the net proceeds from our February public 2006 offering, together with the interest thereon, will provide us with sufficient financial resources to support our operating plan for at least the next 12 months. Our estimate of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, including the risk factors discussed in this report. We have based this estimate on current assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We expect our cash consumption will increase in 2006, as we anticipate an increase in our expenses related to the build-out and equipping of our manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters, growth of the company and research and development of our monoclonal antibody product candidates, as well as the continued development of MyVax. We will need to raise significant additional funds to commercialize MyVax if MyVax receives regulatory approval for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL. A manufacturing facility must be built and qualified and pass a pre-approval inspection from the appropriate regulatory agency prior to any regulatory approval for MyVax. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the cost and timing of completing the build-out and equipping of our manufacturing facility(s) and corporate headquarters; • the rate of progress and magnitude and cost of our product development efforts and other research and development activities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the success, if any, of the commercialization of MyVax, if regulatory approval is obtained; • the pace of expansion of administrative and other infrastructure expenses required to support the growth of the organization; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • our ability to establish collaborative, licensing or other arrangements for the development, sale, marketing or distribution of our product candidates and the terms of those arrangements. Future capital requirements will also depend upon the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, but we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We cannot predict when we may begin to realize product revenue. Until we can generate sufficient product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or 25 Table of Contents corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and any additional debt financing, if available, may require that we pledge our assets, including our intellectual property, or involve restrictive covenants that would restrict our business activities. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of MyVax for the treatment of follicular B-cell NHL is being conducted at 34 treatment centers in the United States and Canada. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third-party couriers to transport patient tissue samples and MyVax. If any of our relationships with these contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories or third-party couriers terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. If certain of these third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators or contract laboratories, do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We rely on third parties to provide materials and services needed for the manufacture and testing of MyVax. If these third parties do not adequately provide materials or fail to carry out their contractual duties or obligations, we may not be able to successfully manufacture or commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We currently rely on third parties, such as vendors, suppliers and contract laboratories, to provide materials and services necessary for the manufacture and testing of MyVax. If any of our relationships with these vendors, suppliers or contract laboratories terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. If certain of these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, do not provide materials or services of suitable quality, we may experience delays in obtaining regulatory approval for or successfully commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We have no experience manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies, for the number of patients and at a cost that would enable widespread commercial use. To date, we have manufactured MyVax in quantities necessary to support our ongoing pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial and Phase 2 clinical trials for MyVax. We have no experience in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies, for the number of patients and at a cost that would support commercial use. In addition, since no other company has manufactured an active immunotherapeutic product for commercial sale, there are no precedents from which we could learn. To commercialize MyVax, we will need to construct and qualify a manufacturing facility that meets current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, standards. In doing so, we may encounter problems with, among other things, controlling costs and quality control and assurance. If we cannot manufacture a sufficient supply of MyVax on acceptable terms, the commercialization of MyVax will be delayed or prevented. We may experience difficulties in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapy that we may develop, which could prevent us from completing our clinical trials and delay the commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Manufacturing MyVax is a complex multi-step process that requires us to expend significant time, money and effort on production, recordkeeping and quality control systems to assure that MyVax will meet product 26 Table of Contents specifications and other regulatory requirements. In addition, manufacturing MyVax requires coordination internally among our employees as well as externally with physicians, hospitals and third-party suppliers and carriers. This process involves a number of risks that may lead to failures or delays in manufacturing MyVax, including: • failure to obtain a sufficient supply of key raw materials of suitable quality; • difficulties in manufacturing MyVax for multiple patients simultaneously; • difficulties in obtaining adequate tumor samples from physicians; • difficulties in the timely shipping of tumor samples to us or in the shipping of MyVax to the treating physicians due to errors by third-party carriers, transportation restrictions or other reasons; • difficulties in completing the development and validation of the specialized assays required to ensure the consistency of MyVax; • failure to ensure adequate quality control and assurances in the manufacturing process as we increase the production quantities of MyVax; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax during the shipping process due to improper handling by third-party carriers, hospitals, physicians or us; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax during storage at our facilities; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or MyVax stored at clinical and/or future commercial sites due to improper handling or holding by clinicians, hospitals or physicians; • difficulties in building-out, qualifying and effectively operating a commercial-scale manufacturing facility; • failure to comply with, or significant changes in, regulatory requirements, such as FDA regulations and environmental laws; • damage to or destruction of our manufacturing facilities or equipment; • shortages of qualified personnel; and • difficulties in ensuring the quality and consistency of materials and services provided by our suppliers. If we experience any difficulties in manufacturing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our ongoing clinical trials may be delayed and commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may be delayed. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials for manufacturing, as well as other components required for the administration of MyVax. The loss of any of these suppliers could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of MyVax. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials used in MyVax and other components used in the manufacturing process and required for the administration of MyVax. In particular, manufacturing of MyVax requires keyhole limpet hemocyanin or KLH, a foreign carrier protein which is derived from a giant sea snail. We purchase KLH from biosyn Arzneimittel GmbH, or biosyn, a single source supplier. In December 1998, we entered into a supply agreement with biosyn, pursuant to which biosyn has agreed to supply us with KLH. The supply agreement expired on December 9, 2005 and a new agreement has not yet been reached. We are negotiating the terms of a new supply agreement with biosyn but we may not be able to reach an agreement with biosyn on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. There may be no other supplier of KLH of suitable quality for our purposes, and there are significant risks associated with our ability to produce KLH of suitable quality ourselves. Even if we identify another supplier of KLH, or produce KLH ourselves, we will not be able to use the alternative source of KLH for the commercial manufacture of MyVax unless the KLH is found to be comparable to the existing KLH. In addition, the FDA requires that, before we can begin to commercially manufacture MyVax, we must ensure that any supplier of KLH be compliant with cGMP. Any inability to obtain a sufficient supply of KLH of suitable quality from biosyn or an alternate supplier, or produce such KLH ourselves, could delay or prevent completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of MyVax. 27 Table of Contents In addition, we currently purchase specialized cell culture containers and cell culture media, which are critical components of our manufacturing process, from Medtronic, Inc. and Hyclone Laboratories, each a single source supplier. We do not have a long-term contract with Medtronic or Hyclone and rely on purchase orders to obtain the necessary cell culture containers and cell culture media. Although to date, Medtronic and Hyclone have met our requirements for our clinical trials, there are no direct alternative sources of supply for the cell culture containers and cell culture media. Administration of MyVax requires an adjuvant to enhance the immune response. We use Leukine sargramostim, a commercially available recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor known as GM-CSF, as an adjuvant for MyVax. An adjuvant is a substance that is administered with an antigen to enhance or increase the immune response to that antigen. We currently rely on purchase orders to purchase GM-CSF from Berlex Laboratories, Inc. We do not have a long-term contract with Berlex. GM-CSF is not commercially available from other sources in the United States or Canada. In the event we receive regulatory approval for MyVax, we would need to significantly increase the volume of our purchases of these materials, and we cannot be certain that large volumes will be available from our current suppliers. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials or components may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar materials from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay or prevent completion of our clinical trials or commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of these materials, our clinical trials will be delayed. In addition, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA to use different materials that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory approval of MyVax may not be received at all. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. In order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we will need to significantly expand our employee base for managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We anticipate that we will need more than 350 employees by the time MyVax is initially commercialized, if MyVax receives regulatory approval. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our research and development efforts effectively; • manage our clinical trials effectively; • integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel; • develop and implement our administrative, accounting, operations, quality, distribution and management information systems and controls; and • hire, train and retain additional qualified personnel and retain our existing personnel. We rely on the availability and condition of our sole manufacturing facility in Redwood City, California. If we are not able to renew the subleases or if the facility is damaged or destroyed and our new manufacturing facility has not yet been completed, then our ability to manufacture products will be significantly affected and we will be delayed or prevented from completing our clinical trials and commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We currently rely on the availability and condition of our sole manufacturing facility, located in Redwood City, California, to manufacture MyVax. We have entered into two leases and construction agreements related to the 28 Table of Contents build-out of a new manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, and we have commenced the build-out of our new site. Both our current facility, as well as our planned new facility, are located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake which, depending on its magnitude, could be disruptive to our operations. Our subleases for our existing facility expire between May 2006 and November 2006. We do not anticipate that build-out of our new manufacturing facility will be completed by that time. Although we are seeking to obtain extensions of the subleases for our current facility, we have no rights to extend the terms and we may not be able to negotiate new subleases or extensions for this facility. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility is significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we may have to wait until our new manufacturing facility is completed before we can resume clinical production. The inability to renew the subleases or the damage or destruction of the facility could affect our ability to manufacture MyVax and delay us from completing or initiating our clinical trials. Because it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. As of December 31, 2005, we held two United States patents covering our core gene amplification technology, including composition of matter claims directed to cell lines and claims directed to methods of making proteins derived from patients’ tumors. These patents expire in 2016. Corresponding patents, although more constrained in scope due to rules not applicable in the United States, have been issued in South Africa, Canada and Australia, all of which expire in 2017. We have also filed additional United States and corresponding foreign patent applications relating to our Hi-GET gene amplification technology. We expect to continue to file additional patent applications. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable active immunotherapies, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we believe we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third 29 Table of Contents party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general field of immunotherapy and gene expression. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may infringe. In particular, we are aware of patents held jointly by Genentech, Inc. and City of Hope National Medical Center relating to expression of recombinant antibodies, by British Technology Group PLC relating to expression of recombinant proteins in mammalian cells, by the Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University relating to expression of recombinant antibodies and by Stratagene relating to generation of DNA that encodes antibodies. To date, we have elected not to seek licenses for these patents because, among other reasons, we believe that our pre-commercialization activities fall within the scope of an available exemption. In addition, we do not believe that we will be required to seek any licenses upon completion of our pre-commercialization activities. For more information, please refer to the section in this report entitled “Business — Intellectual Property.” We may be exposed to future litigation by the companies holding these patents or other third parties based on claims that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or the methods we employ to manufacture them, infringe their intellectual property rights. Our ability to manufacture and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may depend on our ability to demonstrate that MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and our manufacturing processes do not infringe third-party patents. If these patents were found to cover MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or our manufacturing process, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be unable to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, unless we obtained a license. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms in the future, if at all. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a third party’s patent; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our process so it does not infringe which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. 30 Table of Contents We are not able to prevent others, including potential competitors, from using the patient-specific idiotype protein-KLH conjugate, comprising a single idiotype protein, that we use in our lead product candidate, MyVax, for the treatment of indolent B-cell NHL. Although we are able to receive patent protection for our amplified cell lines and the process we use to manufacture the tumor-derived idiotype protein used in MyVax, the patient-specific idiotype-KLH conjugate, comprising a single idiotype protein, and its use for the treatment of indolent B-cell NHL is in the public domain and therefore cannot be patented. As a result, we cannot prevent other companies using different manufacturing processes from developing active immunotherapies that directly compete with MyVax. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and could subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from obtaining the required approvals to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. MyVax and any other immunotherapies that we may develop, clinical trials and manufacturing activities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. The process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. In addition, patient-specific active immunotherapies are complex, and regulatory agencies lack experience with them, which may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our lead product candidate, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. The FDA has not approved the marketing of any immunotherapeutic drug based on a patient-specific active immunotherapy. Consequently, there is no precedent for the successful commercialization of a patient-specific active idiotype immunotherapeutic drug. In addition, we have not previously filed the marketing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain timely FDA approval, if at all. We will not be able to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, FDA approval would prevent us from commercializing MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Even if MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, receives regulatory approval, we may still face development and regulatory difficulties relating to MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, in the future. If we receive regulatory approval to sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If we discover previously unknown problems with a product or our manufacturing and laboratory facility, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. We will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend our regulatory approval; • suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our facilities; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. 31 Table of Contents Obtaining regulatory approval of our manufacturing process and facility or disruptions in our manufacturing process may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Before we can begin to commercially manufacture MyVax, we must obtain regulatory approval from the FDA for our manufacturing process and facility. In addition, we must pass a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility by the FDA before MyVax can obtain marketing approval. In order to obtain approval, we will need to ensure that all of our processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. If any of our vendors, contract laboratories or suppliers are found to be out of compliance with cGMP, we may experience delays or disruptions in the manufacturing of MyVax while we work with these third parties to remedy the violation or while we work to identify suitable replacement vendors. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and may not be permitted to sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We are currently manufacturing MyVax for our clinical trials at our existing facility in Redwood City, California. Our facility is currently subject to licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services, and we received this license during the second quarter of 2004. Our facility is subject to inspection by the FDA as well as by the California Department of Health Services at any time. Failure to maintain our license from the California Department of Health Services or to meet the inspection criteria of the FDA and the California Department of Health Services would disrupt our manufacturing processes and would harm our business. If an inspection by the FDA, California Department of Health Services or foreign regulatory authorities indicates that there are deficiencies, we could be required to take remedial actions, or our facility may be closed. In order to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, we will need to complete the build-out and equipping and qualify our new manufacturing facility. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays and the costs of complying with FDA regulations may be higher than we anticipated. In addition, any material changes we make to the manufacturing process may require approval by the FDA and state or foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and we may experience delays. Such delays could increase costs and adversely affect our business. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration or licensing arrangements or other arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may require that we pledge our assets, including our intellectual property or involve restrictive covenants that would restrict our business activities. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence and continue a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study agreement terms with prospective sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site and delays in recruiting patients to participate in a study. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of such clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. If we have significant delays in testing or regulatory approvals, our financial results and the commercial prospects for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. The commercial success of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of these products among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any approved immunotherapies will depend on a number of factors, including: • market acceptance of patient-specific active immunotherapies; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • ability to produce an active immunotherapy at a competitive price; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • publicity concerning our products or competitive products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable. If we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, will be available from: • governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid; • private health insurers, including managed care organizations; and • other third-party payors. Many patients will not personally be capable of paying for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop and will rely on third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. A primary current trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. Large private payors, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. We have not determined the full impact of this new law on our business; however, we believe that legislation that could limit reimbursement for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, could adversely impact how 33 Table of Contents much or under what circumstances healthcare providers would prescribe or administer our products, and could decrease the price we might establish for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues. Other cost-control initiatives could also decrease the price we might establish for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, which would also result in lower product revenues. If governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are more effective than MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Various products are currently marketed for the treatment of NHL, and a number of companies are developing new treatments. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to: • successfully and rapidly complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a cost-effective manner; • maintain a proprietary position for our manufacturing process and other technology; • attract and retain key personnel; and • build an adequate sales and marketing infrastructure for MyVax. Several companies, such as GlaxoSmithKline, Biogen Idec Inc. and Immunomedics, Inc., are involved in the development of passive immunotherapies for the treatment of NHL. Various products are currently marketed for treatment of NHL. Rituxan, a passive immunotherapy co-marketed by Genentech, Inc. and Biogen Idec Inc., is approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory, low grade B-cell NHL. In addition, Biogen Idec Inc. has received FDA approval for marketing its passive radioimmunotherapy product, Zevalin, and GlaxoSmithKline Plc received FDA approval for marketing its version of passive radioimmunotherapy product, Bexxar, for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL. For more information, please refer to the section entitled “Business — MyVax Personalized Immunotherapy” in this report. In addition, there are several companies focusing on the development of active immunotherapies for the treatment of NHL, including Antigenics, Inc. and Favrille, Inc. Favrille, Inc. and Biovest International, Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Accentia, Inc., are currently conducting Phase 3 clinical trials of active immunotherapy in patients with follicular NHL. If any are successfully developed and approved, they could compete directly with MyVax, if it is approved. In addition, researchers are continually learning more about NHL and other forms of cancer, and new discoveries may lead to new technologies for treatment. As a result, MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, may be rendered obsolete and noncompetitive at any time. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize MyVax for indications other than follicular B-cell NHL are at an early stage and are subject to a high risk of failure. The process of successfully developing product candidates is very time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We have recently begun to direct our efforts toward the development of MyVax for indications other than 34 Table of Contents follicular B-cell NHL. We do not know whether our planned clinical trials for MyVax in indications other than follicular B-cell NHL will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether these clinical trials will result in marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in clinical trials. We do not anticipate that MyVax for indications other than follicular B-cell NHL will reach the market for at least several years, if at all. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with companies to sell and market MyVax, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these services. If MyVax is approved for commercial sale, we currently plan to establish our own sales force to market it in the United States. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We cannot be certain that we would be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell MyVax in the United States. We will also need to develop a plan to market and sell MyVax outside the United States. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we will incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we sell MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, commercially. Currently, we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims. In the future, an individual may bring a liability claim against us if MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • substantial litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to patients; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. We have general liability insurance, which includes product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials up to a $5.0 million annual aggregate limit. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Although we believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate, it may not be sufficient to cover all losses that might arise. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 35 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. As appropriate, we store these materials and various wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. We currently contract with a third party to dispose of these materials and various wastes resulting from the use of such materials at our facility. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes resulting from the use of such materials. While our costs for compliance, including costs related to the disposal of hazardous materials, to date have been nominal, we may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the California and federal environmental protection agencies and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act. OSHA or the California or federal Environmental Protection Agency, may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. Even if our safety procedures for handling, storage and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. We have general liability insurance of up to $5.0 million per occurrence, with an annual aggregate limit of $5.0 million. We believe our current insurance coverage is adequate. However, this insurance may not cover a claim that arises if it is related to our biological or hazardous materials. Furthermore, if we were to be held liable for an accident involving our biological or hazardous materials, this liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our other financial resources. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. Our success depends upon our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly Dan W. Denney, Jr., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of Dr. Denney or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial or the commercialization of MyVax or adversely affect our other development efforts. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any members of senior management. As of December 31, 2005, Dr. Denney owned 1,208,182 shares of our common stock that were not subject to any vesting and options to purchase 572,918 shares of our common stock, of which approximately 114,583 shares were vested. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management other than Dr. Denney. The insurance covering Dr. Denney is in the amount of $10.0 million. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. In particular, our ability to deliver patient therapies depends upon our ability to attract and retain quality assurance and control personnel. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We will need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more 36 Table of Contents complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements is expected to continue to increase our costs and require additional management resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to comply with these reporting requirements. In March 2006, it was determined that our previously issued financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2005 should be restated because we did not apply the correct accounting treatment with respect to our leases for our new manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters. As a result, our management concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which is described further in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may experience additional material weaknesses in the future. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional funds. The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123R and changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may affect how we conduct our business and affect our reported results of operations. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123R, “Share Based Payment — An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95,” (“SFAS 123R”) which will require us to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation (including stock options and our employee stock purchase plan, as currently constructed) at fair value and record compensation expense in our statement of operations. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced the adoption of a new rule that amends the effective date of SFAS 123R. The effective date of the new standard under these new rules for our financial statements is January 1, 2006. Adoption of this statement is expected to have a significant impact on our financial statements as we will be required to expense the fair value of our stock option grants and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan rather than disclose the impact on our net loss within our footnotes, as is our current practice. The impact of SFAS 123R on our financial statements and related disclosures is still being evaluated by management but is expected to be material to our results of operations. Our actual share-based compensation expense in 2006 will be dependent on a number of factors, including the amount of awards granted and the fair value of those awards at the time of grant. Also, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Other Risks Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, or delays in the FDA review process; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to MyVax, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • the success of our research efforts and clinical trials; 37 Table of Contents • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit involving us; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or biopharmaceutical industries in general; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • changes in accounting principles; and • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In particular, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include a classified board of directors and a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Finally, these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The ownership interests of our officers, directors and largest stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. As of February 28, 2006, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 24.4% of our common stock (assuming no exercise of outstanding options or warrants). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. 38 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could lower the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2006, 35,814,385 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In February 2006, in connection with our recent public offering of common stock, each of our directors and certain of our executive officers and stockholders (which directors, executive officers and stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 10.6% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2006) agreed, subject to specified exceptions, that without the prior written consent of WR Hambrecht + Co, they would not, directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract to sell, transfer the economic risk of ownership in, make any short sale, pledge or otherwise dispose of any shares of our common stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for or any other rights to purchase or acquire our common stock (including without limitation, common stock which may be deemed to be beneficially owned by the undersigned in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and securities which may be issued upon exercise of a stock option or warrant), for the period ending on May 10, 2006. WR Hambrecht + Co, may, in its sole discretion, permit early release of shares subject to the lock-up agreements. All of the shares of our common stock that were outstanding as of February 28, 2006, are eligible for sale in the public market under Rules 144, 144(k) and 701, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations and the 90-day lock-up agreements described above. In addition, of the 2,731,479 shares issuable upon exercise of options to purchase our common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2006, approximately 926,363 shares were vested and eligible for sale as of February 28, 2006. In addition, if we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, either for our own account or for the accounts of other security holders, subject to certain conditions and limitations, the holders of registration rights will be entitled to include their shares of common stock. In addition, holders of registration rights may require us on not more than two occasions at any time to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to their shares of common stock. Further, the holders of registration rights may require us to register their shares on Form S-3. These rights shall terminate altogether three years after the effective date of our initial public offering, and, with respect to each holder of such rights, on the date when such holder holds less than 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock and is able to sell all of its shares pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act in any 90-day period. These registration rights are subject to certain conditions and limitations, including the right of the underwriters to limit the number of shares included in any such registration under certain circumstances. In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and issue additional shares in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 