ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management and, periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the Board of Directors. A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. Our non-performing assets have substantially increased over the past five years, and this has, and will continue, to affect our results of operations. Our total non-performing assets have increased to $23.8 million, or 4.6% of our total assets at December 31, 2012, from $13.5 million, or 3.4% of our total assets at December 31, 2007, but have decreased 30.1% from December 31, 2011. The increase in non-performing assets reflects difficulties experienced by borrowers due to declining real estate values and the general slowdown in the economy in our trade area. The increase in non-performing assets has negatively impacted our results of operations, through additional provisions for loan losses, reduced interest income, loan collection costs, expenses related to foreclosed real estate, further write-downs on foreclosed real estate and will continue to impact our performance until these assets are resolved. In addition, future increases in our non-performing assets will further negatively affect our results of operations. We can give you no assurance that our non-performing assets will not increase further. Our earnings may not grow if we are unable to successfully attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income. We have experienced growth, and our future business strategy is to continue to expand. Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net-interest income. In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, to successfully attract core deposits and identify loan and investment opportunities, as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest-rate trends. Market conditions may adversely affect our fee based insurance business. The revenues of our fee based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, 8 which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Certain of our intangible assets may become impaired in the future. Intangible assets are tested for impairment on a periodic basis. Impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangibles, which may be less than the carrying value, which may adversely affect our financial condition. If we determine that impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on our intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress, the State of New Jersey and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking and insurance laws, regulations and policies for areas warranting changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, private lawsuits, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business, which is located elsewhere in this report. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act will alter the regulatory regime to which we are subject, and may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our business. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal CFPB, tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. The CFPB began operations on July 21, 2011. It has broad authority to write regulations regarding consumer financial products and services. These regulations will apply to numerous types of entities, including insured depository institutions such as the Bank, and mortgage servicing providers. It is impossible to predict at this time the content or number of such regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires depository institution holding companies with assets greater than $500 million to be subject to capital requirements at least as stringent as to those applicable to insured depository institutions, meaning, for instance, that such holding companies will no longer be able to count trust preferred securities issued on or after May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital. However, the Dodd-Frank Act allows for trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, by depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of 9 less than $15 billion as of year-end 2009 to continue to count as Tier 1 capital if the securities qualified as Tier 1 capital on that date for the remaining life of the security. Our trust preferred securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010. Moreover, agreements among bank regulators across the world (including the United States) known as the Basel III capital accord also call for the removal of trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital for holding companies of all sizes, encourage more reliance on common equity as the main component of capital, and call for increased levels of capital. Rules implementing Basel III have not be yet been proposed in the United States. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. While some rules have been finalized and/or issued in proposed form, many have yet to be proposed. It is impossible to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our ability to conduct business. We cannot predict the effect on our operations of any future legislative or regulatory initiatives. We cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative or regulatory initiatives any governmental entity may undertake in the future, and what, if any, effects such initiatives may have on our operations. The U.S. federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in an attempt to ameliorate the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy, and to make further reforms to the U.S. financial services system. Further, there can be no assurance that any initiative enacted or adopted in response to the ongoing economic crisis will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that any such initiative will not have adverse consequences to us. There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make. The risk of non-payment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to us, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, we maintain an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was $5.0 million. Our marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may result in the assumption by us of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers’ available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. We are in competition with many other financial service providers, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us. The banking industry within our trade area is highly competitive. Our principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends upon our ability to serve small business clients in a more responsive manner than the large and mid-size financial institutions against whom we compete in our principal market area. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as “home town” institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. 10 The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, but not our shareholders. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and to foster economic growth and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Lending Officer, Chief Retail Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Tri-State Insurance Agency, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the two counties in the New Jersey and New York markets in which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of this specific region could have an adverse impact on us. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. We cannot assure you that continued negative trends or developments would not have a significant adverse effect on us. The nationwide recession may adversely affect our business by reducing real estate values in our trade area and stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our trade area, like the rest of the United States, is currently experiencing economic contraction. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability on both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans, and have, and may in the future continue to, result in higher levels of non-accrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined in our trade area. Since the majority of our loans are secured by real estate, declines in the market value of real estate impact the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real estate. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: telecommunications; data processing; automation; internet-based banking; telephone banking; and debit cards and so-called “smart cards.” Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. 11 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 