ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of these risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. Risks Related to Our Business In light of our suspension of development of our MyVax program, we are taking steps to preserve the value of our assets, and we are unlikely to be able to raise sufficient funds to continue our existing operations as currently structured. In December 2007, we obtained data from our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of MyVax indicating that the trial did not meet its primary clinical endpoint. In March 2008, the FDA advised us that one or more additional Phase 3 clinical trials for MyVax would be required before the FDA would accept a BLA for FDA review. We have determined that it is not financially feasible at this time to pursue further Phase 3 clinical trials of MyVax prior to receipt of FDA approval. As a result, we have suspended the development of MyVax, and we are evaluating our strategic alternatives with respect to all aspects of our business. We currently have capital resources that we believe to be sufficient to support our operations through approximately May 2008. We are unlikely to be able to raise sufficient funds to continue our existing operations beyond that time, particularly in light of our obligations under our lease agreements. Accordingly, we do not expect to resume the conduct of our current operations other than as a substantially restructured entity, whether as a result of bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise. At the present time, our strategy for the benefit of our creditors and stockholders is to take steps to preserve and support the future value, if any, of MyVax, to seek funding for our monoclonal antibody program, to conserve our current cash to the extent reasonably practicable and to generate cash, including potentially through the sale of assets. To conserve cash, as discussed below, we have implemented a plan for a substantial reduction 22 Table of Contents of our workforce. We are also evaluating our alternatives with respect to the sale of equipment and other non-critical assets. In addition, we are pursuing strategic alternatives for our monoclonal antibody and MyVax programs, including potentially through a spin-off or sale to a separately funded entity or entities. Stockholders should recognize that, to satisfy our liabilities, including in particular those under our lease agreements, fund the development of our monoclonal antibody program and preserve the value of our MyVax program, we may pursue strategic alternatives that result in the stockholders of Genitope having little or no continuing interest in the monoclonal antibody or MyVax programs or other assets of the Genitope as stockholders or otherwise. We have been substantially dependent on the success of our one product candidate, MyVax, and we recently suspended the development of MyVax. We have expended most of our time, money and effort in the development of one primary product candidate, MyVax, and we have been substantially dependent upon its success. We recently completed our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial examining the use of MyVax in previously untreated follicular B-cell NHL. In December 2007, we obtained data from our Phase 3 clinical trial of MyVax indicating that the trial did not meet its primary clinical endpoint in that there was no statistically significant difference in the progression-free survival of patients receiving MyVax compared to patients receiving the control substance. Between December 2007 and March 2008, we discussed our clinical data with, and provided information to, the FDA with a view towards the potential filing of a BLA on the basis of the results of a pre-specified endpoint and other analyses of the Phase 3 clinical trial, notwithstanding the trial's failure to meet its primary clinical endpoint. After a review of the data, the FDA communicated to us in a meeting in March 2008 that, in light of the Phase 3 clinical trial's failure to meet its primary endpoint, one or more additional Phase 3 clinical trials for MyVax would be required before the FDA would accept a BLA for FDA review. We have determined that it is not financially feasible at this time to pursue further Phase 3 clinical trials of MyVax prior to receipt of FDA approval. As a result, in March 2008, we suspended the development of MyVax. We are evaluating our alternatives with respect to our MyVax program and implementing steps to preserve the future value, if any, of MyVax. Our strategic alternatives could potentially include a spin-off or sale of our MyVax program to a separately funded entity in which the stockholders of Genitope have little or no continuing interest, as stockholders or otherwise. It is highly likely that we will never receive regulatory approval for or commercialize MyVax, and we may not be able to realize any value for MyVax. We are unlikely to be able to raise sufficient funds to continue our current operations, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We currently have capital resources that we believe to be sufficient to support our operations through approximately May 2008. We are unlikely to be able to raise sufficient additional capital to continue our existing operations beyond that time, particularly in light of our obligations under our lease agreements. The failure of our Phase 3 clinical trial to meet its primary clinical endpoint and our recent decision to suspend the development of MyVax have significantly depressed our stock price and severely impaired our ability to raise additional funds. We are currently evaluating our strategic alternatives with respect to all aspects of our business. We cannot assure you that any actions that we take would raise or generate sufficient capital to fully address the uncertainties of our financial position. Moreover, we may not successfully identify or implement any of these alternatives, and, even if we determine to pursue one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to do so on acceptable financial terms. As a result, we may be unable to realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. All of these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 23 Table of Contents If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets, and we might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. In addition, the accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments or charges that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern, such as charges related to impairment of our assets, the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities or other similar adjustments. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the accompanying financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph regarding going-concern uncertainty. Management has considered whether, under FAS 144, any events or circumstances had occurred prior to December 31, 2007 that would indicate an impairment of our long-lived assets, particularly in light of the announcement in December 2007 with respect to the results of our Phase 3 clinical trial of MyVax. After completing its evaluation and considering all external and internal information available as of the impairment analysis, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, the carrying amount of the long-lived assets were recoverable and therefore no impairment existed. However, we will continue to evaluate the possible impairment of assets as required under FAS 144 as it relates to our financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2008 and succeeding quarters. In light of the FDA’s March 2008 communication to us that one or more Phase 3 clinical trials for MyVax would be required before the FDA would accept a BLA for FDA review, we anticipate that our financial statements may reflect a charge for an impairment of assets at the end of that period. We may need to seek to protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and in that event, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. We have not generated any revenues to date, and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1996. We currently have capital resources that we believe to be sufficient to support our operations through approximately May 2008. We are unlikely to be able to raise sufficient capital to continue our existing operations beyond that time, particularly in light of our obligations under our lease agreements, and we are currently evaluating our strategic alternatives with respect to all aspects of our business. We cannot assure you that any actions that we take would raise or generate sufficient capital to fully address the uncertainties of our financial position. As a result, we may be unable to realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. If we are unable to settle our obligations to our creditors, including our landlord, or if we are unable to obtain financing to support continued satisfaction of our lease and other debt obligations, we would likely be in default under our lease and credit agreements and would likely need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In that event, we may seek to reorganize our business, or we or a trustee appointed by the court may be required to liquidate our assets, In either of these events, whether the stockholders receive any value for their shares is highly uncertain. If we needed to liquidate our assets, we might realize significantly less from them than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. The funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets would be used first to pay off the debt owed to secured and unsecured creditors before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders, and any shortfall in the proceeds would directly reduce the amounts available for distribution, if any, to our creditors and to our stockholders. In the event we were required to liquidate under the federal bankruptcy laws, it is highly unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. If we are unable to reach an acceptable settlement with the landlord of our leased facilities, or obtain financing to support continued satisfaction of our lease obligations, we would likely default under the lease agreements and would likely be forced to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. In May 2005, we entered into lease agreements to lease an aggregate of approximately 220,000 square feet of space located in two buildings in Fremont, California for our manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters. There are currently 12.7 years remaining on the lease, with a total rental obligation of $101.0 million as of February 29, 2008. We are in the process of determining whether or when to vacate the buildings. However, even if we vacate both buildings, we will have continuing obligations under the lease agreements that we may be unable to satisfy. We have commenced initial settlement discussions with our landlord to reach a settlement in connection with our remaining obligations under the lease agreements outside the protection of federal bankruptcy laws. Depending upon the outcome of our discussions with the landlord and our ability to raise the necessary financing to allow the development of the monoclonal antibody panel to continue and to preserve the value of MyVax, we intend to look for additional space to lease on a short-term basis. If our discussions regarding settlement are ultimately unsuccessful or if we are unable to obtain financing to support continued satisfaction of our lease obligations, we would likely be in default under the lease agreements and would likely be forced to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. In that event, we may seek to reorganize our business, or we or a trustee appointed by the court may be required to liquidate our assets. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements would cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, MyVax or our monoclonal antibody program. It is highly uncertain whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our strategic alternatives could include a spin off or sale of our programs to a separately funded entity or entities in which the stockholders of Genitope have little or no continuing interest as stockholders or otherwise. Alternatively, to the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders would likely experience substantial dilution, and debt financing, if available, may require that we pledge our assets, including our intellectual property, or involve restrictive covenants that would restrict our business activities. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it will be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, our monoclonal antibody panel and/or MyVax, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 24 Table of Contents Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize our monoclonal antibody panel are at an early stage of testing and are subject to a high risk of failure, and, depending on the strategic alternative that we pursue, if any, stockholders of Genitope may ultimately have little or no continuing interest in the monoclonal antibody program. The process of successfully developing product candidates is very time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We have recently begun to focus our efforts toward the development of our monoclonal antibody panel. To date, we have only conducted pre-clinical tests on our monoclonal antibody panel. It is unlikely that an IND would be filed before 2009. When and whether we will be able to file the IND will be largely dependent upon our ability to fund, through strategic alternatives or otherwise, the continued development of the monoclonal antibody panel. In addition, even if we are successful in raising the funds to file an IND and initiate clinical trials, we do not know whether our clinical trials will result in regulatory approval or marketable products. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in clinical trials. We do not anticipate that our monoclonal antibody panel would reach the market for many years, if at all. Moreover, stockholders should recognize that, to satisfy our liabilities, including in particular those under our lease agreements, fund the development of our monoclonal antibody program and preserve the value of our MyVax program, we may pursue strategic alternatives, including potentially a spin-off or sale of the program, that result in the stockholders of Genitope having little or no continuing interest in the monoclonal antibody program or other assets of the Genitope as stockholders or otherwise. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and, if our operations continue, we anticipate that we would continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. We are a development-stage company with a limited operating history. We have focused primarily on conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval for MyVax personalized immunotherapy. We have not generated any revenues to date, and we have financed our operations and internal growth through private placements of common and preferred stock, our lines of credit, public offerings of common stock and interest income earned from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1996. Net losses were approximately $65.6 million in 2007, approximately $48.9 million in 2006 and approximately $30.4 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $259.8 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We have suspended the development of MyVax, we are evaluating strategic alternatives to support the development of our monoclonal antibody panel and preserve of the value, if any, of the MyVax program. Our monoclonal antibody panel is early in its development and we expect that we would incur substantial operating losses for at least the next several years in order to continue its development. We also have substantial cash obligations related to our lease agreements that constitute a significant portion of our operating expenses. As a result, if our operations continue, we expect that we would continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. As a result of our planned reductions in force, we will be operating with a severe shortage of personnel and may not be able to conduct even limited operations. If we fail to retain key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our monoclonal antibody panel or any other product candidates. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense and we must retain and motivate highly qualified scientific personnel. We are highly dependent upon our scientific staff, particularly those employees who are involved in the development of our monoclonal antibody panel, including Dan W. Denney, Jr., Ph.D., our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of any of these key scientific employees, including Dr. Denney, could delay or prevent the development of the monoclonal antibody panel. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with any employees. As of December 31, 2007, Dr. Denney owned 1,266,933 shares of our common stock that were not subject to any vesting and options to purchase 979,167 shares of our common stock, of which approximately 522,915 shares were vested. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management other than Dr. Denney. The insurance covering Dr. Denney is in the amount of $10.0 million. On March 14, 2008, we provided a notice to 165 employees under the WARN Act that we plan to conduct a “mass layoff” at our facility in Fremont and that their employment is expected to end on May 13, 2008. We have also provided WARN notices to six of our nine executive officers, not including Dan W. Denney, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer, John Vuko, our Chief Financial Officer, and Laura Woodhead, our Vice President, Legal Affairs, that their employment is expected to end on May 26, 2008. We intend to also 25 Table of Contents provide WARN notices on approximately March 31, 2008 to Mr. Vuko and Ms. Woodhead that their employment is expected to end 60 days following the date that notice is provided. As a result of our reductions in force, we expect that approximately 20 employees will remain as employees of Genitope as of the end of May 2008, and that these employees will primarily be those involved in the development of our monoclonal antibody panel. Accordingly, we will be operating with a severe shortage of resources and may not be able to conduct even limited operations. In March 2008, we retained Development Specialists, Inc., a provider of management and consulting services, as a consultant to, among other potential services, assist in and oversee the wind down of our business in such a fashion as to preserve a potential restart to operations, to provide the services of one of its employees to serve as one of our officers, as necessary, and to assist in our negotiations with creditors, including our landlord, and other stakeholders. If we are unable to maintain our Nasdaq Global Market listing, the liquidity of our common stock would be seriously limited. On February 7, 2008, we received a staff deficiency letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that, for the preceding 30 consecutive days, the bid price for our common stock trading on the Nasdaq Global Market had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market. In accordance with Nasdaq requirements, we have 180 calendar days, or until August 5, 2008, to regain compliance. To reestablish compliance, our minimum closing bid price must be more than $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by August 5, 2008, Nasdaq will likely commence delisting proceedings against us. Additionally, on March 6, 2008, we received a staff deficiency letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that, as a result of the resignation of a member of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, we were no longer in compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee requirements that each listed issuer have an audit committee composed of at least three independent directors. In accordance with Nasdaq marketplace rules, Nasdaq has provided the company with a cure period in order to regain compliance. The cure period will continue (1) until the earlier of our next annual stockholders’ meeting or February 26, 2009, or (2) if the next annual stockholders’ meeting is held before August 25, 2008, until August 25, 2008. If we do not regain compliance by the earlier of these dates, Nasdaq will likely commence delisting proceedings. Unless we appeal the delisting determination and are successful in that appeal, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. We have not yet determined what action, if any, we will take in response to the notice from Nasdaq. It is likely, however, that we will not be able to satisfy Nasdaq’s conditions for continued listing, and there can be no assurance that we will appeal any delisting proceedings that are initiated, that any potential appeal or hearing for a stay of delisting will be successful if proceedings are commenced, that our common stock will remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or that our common stock will be able to be listed and traded on another market. If our common stock is delisted, it could seriously limit the liquidity of our common stock and would impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our common stock, which could seriously harm our business, especially at a time when we may need to raise substantial additional capital to fund the development of the monoclonal antibody panel and preserve the value of our MyVax program. Delisting from Nasdaq would also result in negative publicity and would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq the price of our common stock may decline and our common stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of their Genitope common stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market and we are not able to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock likely will become a “penny stock.” In general, regulations of the SEC define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market and that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock becomes a penny stock, additional sales practice requirements would be imposed on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than certain qualified investors. For transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. In addition, the rules on penny stocks require delivery, prior to and after any penny stock transaction, of disclosures required by the SEC. If our common stock were subject to the rules on penny stocks, the market liquidity for our common stock could be severely and adversely affected. Accordingly, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market may also be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Because it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to ensure their protection. We need to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our monoclonal antibody panel, MyVax or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. As of December 31, 2007, we held two U.S. patents covering our core gene amplification technology, including composition of matter claims directed to cell lines and claims directed to methods of making proteins derived from patients’ tumors. Unless extended, these patents expire in 2016. We also held one issued U.S. patent relating to treating lymphoma with custom vaccines. Unless extended, this patent expires in 2018. In December 2005, we filed patent applications for the composition and therapeutic use of our monoclonal antibody panel. Corresponding patents, although more constrained in scope due to rules not applicable in the United States, have been issued in South Africa, Canada and Australia, all of which expire in 2017. We have also filed additional United States and corresponding foreign patent applications relating to our Hi-GET gene amplification technology. We expect to continue to file additional patent applications. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications and issued patents; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for viable active immunotherapies or other product candidates, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents or other proprietary rights of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize any immunotherapies or other product candidates that we may develop depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates that we may develop, without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general field of immunotherapy and gene expression. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that product candidates that we may 27 Table of Contents develop may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that product candidates that we may develop may infringe. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claimed that we infringed on its technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a third party’s patent; • a judicial prohibition against our selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our process so it does not infringe which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are more effective than the immunotherapies that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Various products are currently marketed for the treatment of NHL, and a number of companies are developing new treatments. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any immunotherapies that we may develop. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and could subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for any product candidates that we may develop. Both before and after approval, if any, any product candidates that we may develop, as well as clinical trials and manufacturing activities, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Obtaining FDA approval involves the submission of the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, if any, among other information. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval, and, even if we are able to do so, the process of obtaining this approval is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including the following: • the FDA may not find that a particular product candidate is sufficiently safe or effective; • FDA officials may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials differently than we do; and • the FDA may not find our manufacturing processes or facilities satisfactory. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, FDA approval would prevent us from commercializing any product candidates that we may develop. 28 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. As appropriate, we store these materials and various wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. We currently contract with a third party to dispose of these materials and various wastes resulting from the use of such materials at our facility. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes resulting from the use of such materials. While our costs for compliance, including costs related to the disposal of hazardous materials, to date have been nominal, we may incur significant costs complying with both existing and future environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the California and federal environmental protection agencies and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act. OSHA or the California or federal Environmental Protection Agency, may adopt regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We are unable to predict whether any agency will adopt any regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials that could be dangerous to human health, safety or the environment. Even if our safety procedures for handling, storage and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. We have general liability insurance of up to $5.0 million per occurrence, with an annual aggregate limit of $5.0 million. This insurance may not cover a claim that arises if it is related to our biological or hazardous materials. Furthermore, if we were to be held liable for an accident involving our biological or hazardous materials, this liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our other financial resources. Other Risks Our stock price has been and may continue to be very volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this Annual Report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • announcements related to filings for bankruptcy or restructuring; • announcements regarding our ability or inability to obtain necessary funding; • announcements regarding our status as a company listed on Nasdaq; • announcements regarding the nature of any strategic alternative that we pursue; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • the success of our research efforts and clinical trials; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit involving us; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or biopharmaceutical industries in general; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • any issuances of additional equity or debt by us; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; 29 Table of Contents • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • changes in accounting principles; and • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In particular, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would impair our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, these fluctuations may be exaggerated for us if the trading volume of our common stock is low. Our common stock may experience similar or even more dramatic price and volume fluctuations which may continue indefinitely. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make our acquisition, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent our acquisition or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include a classified board of directors and a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Finally, these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The ownership interests of our officers, directors and largest stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. As of March 21, 2008, our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 53.5% of our common stock (assuming no exercise of outstanding options or warrants). As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents 