Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain Factors that May Affect Our Business and Future Results Some of the information included herein contains forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to our management and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Any statements contained herein (including, without limitation, statements to the effect that the Company, we, or management “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “continues,” “plans,” “believes,” or “projects,” or statements concerning “potential” or “opportunity,” and any variations thereof, comparable terminology or the negative thereof) that are not statements of historical fact should be construed as forward-looking statements. Our actual results may vary materially from those expected in these forward-looking statements. The realization of such forward-looking statements may be impaired by risks including, but not limited to the following: Our future success is dependent on the continued growth in embolic coiling procedures and our ability to convince a concentrated customer base of neurointerventionalists to use our products as an alternative to other available products. Our future success and revenue growth are significantly dependent upon an increase in the use of embolic coiling as a procedure to treat cerebral aneurysms. If the number of embolic coiling procedures does not increase or if a new procedure that does not employ our products becomes a more acceptable alternative among neurointerventionalists, our business would be seriously harmed. The number of interventional neuroradiologists and neurosurgeons trained to conduct embolic coiling procedures is relatively small, both in the United States and abroad. There are currently approximately 20 Table of Contents 300 neurointerventionalists in the United States who perform embolic coiling procedures. We believe less than one-third of these physicians perform a substantial majority of the total number of embolic coiling procedures per year. In the three months ended March 31, 2006, a substantial portion of our product sales were to approximately 65 hospitals in the United States. The growth in the number of interventional neuroradiologists and neurosurgeons in the United States is constrained by the lengthy training programs required to educate these physicians. Accordingly, our revenue growth will be primarily dependent on our ability to increase sales of our products to our existing customers and to increase sales of products to trained neurointerventionalists that currently use products offered by our competitors. We believe that neurointerventionalists who do not currently use our products will not widely adopt our products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that our products provide benefits or an attractive alternative to the clipping of aneurysms or the use of competitors’ products. We believe neurointerventionalists base their decision to use an alternative procedure or product on the following criteria, among others: • extent of clinical evidence supporting patient benefits; • their level of experience with the alternative product; • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • availability of reimbursement within healthcare payment systems; and • costs associated with the purchase of new products and equipment. In addition, we believe that recommendations and support of our products by influential physicians are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive continued support from such influential physicians, neurointerventionalists and hospitals may not use our products. In such circumstances, we may not achieve expected revenue levels and our business will suffer. We are currently involved in a patent litigation action involving Boston Scientific Corporation and, if we do not prevail in this action, we could be liable for past damages and be prevented from making, using, selling, offering to sell, importing into the U.S. or exporting from the U.S., our microcoils, our primary product line. In September 2004, Boston Scientific Corporation and Target Therapeutics, Inc., a subsidiary of Boston Scientific Corporation, (collectively “Boston Scientific”), filed a patent infringement suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that our microcoil devices infringe two patents held by Boston Scientific and that this infringement is willful. Sales of our microcoil devices currently represent virtually all of our revenues. Boston Scientific is a large, publicly-traded corporation with significantly greater financial resources than us. In November 2004, we answered Boston Scientific’s complaint and counterclaimed, alleging that Boston Scientific’s occlusive products, and their use, infringe three of our patents. Each party seeks an injunction preventing the making, using, selling, offering to sell, importing into the U.S. or exporting from the U.S., of the other’s detachable coil devices in the United States, damages for past infringement, which may be trebled, and payment of its legal fees and costs. In addition, each party seeks a declaration that the patents of the other are invalid and not infringed and has alleged that certain of the asserted patents of the other are unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. Boston Scientific is also a party in two other lawsuits against Cordis, a division of Johnson & Johnson (“Cordis”) and ev3/ Micro Therapeutics, Inc. in which the Boston Scientific patents, which are the basis of Boston Scientific’s suit against us, are also at issue. An outcome of either of these lawsuits adverse to Cordis or ev3/ Micro Therapeutics, Inc., and related to the same patent claims Boston Scientific asserts against us, could have an adverse impact on certain of our defenses in our litigation with Boston Scientific. In October 2004, Cordis requested ex parte reexamination of certain claims in those patents. In February 2005, the court granted a stay of the Boston Scientific lawsuit against Micrus until the earlier of 12 months or the outcome of the reexamination by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) in 21 Table of Contents the Cordis case. In February 2006, the USPTO issued a Notice of Intent to Issue Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate for one of the two patents, apparently confirming all of the claims of that patent. In February 2006, the USPTO also issued an Office Action in which it apparently confirmed the patentability of certain of the claims in the second patent, but rejected the remainder. Boston Scientific has stated to the USPTO and to the court that the rejected claims from the second patent can be reissued and certified as patentable upon reexamination if a correction is made to the priority chain for the second patent. In March 2006, the court lifted the stay with respect to any claims that were confirmed as patentable in the reexamination proceedings and has permitted discovery in the case to commence with respect to those claims. The parties have since exchanged preliminary infringement contentions in which Boston Scientific asserted only claims from the first patent. Boston Scientific has stated that it would supplement its preliminary infringement contentions to include claims from the second Boston Scientific patent still under reexamination upon completion of the reexamination, and that these asserted claims would be from the set of claims which has not yet been deemed in condition to be confirmed by the USPTO. Based on our current understanding of the reexamination, we believe that the claims of the second Boston Scientific patent also will be confirmed. The confirmation of asserted claims in one, and potentially both, of Boston Scientific’s asserted patents may negatively impact our chances of mounting a successful invalidity defense against this patent. We are unable at this time to determine the likely outcome of the patent litigation. Patent lawsuits involve complex legal and factual issues which can take a number of years and a great deal of expense and management attention to resolve. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to the litigation. In the event it is determined that we infringe patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific and that those claims are not invalid and not unenforceable we may, among other things, be required to do one or more of the following: • pay damages, including up to treble damages and Boston Scientific’s attorney’s fees and costs, which may be substantial; • cease, because of an injunction, the making, using, selling, offering to sell, importing into the U.S. or exporting from the U.S. of our microcoil devices, which currently represent virtually all of our revenues, found to infringe the patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific; • expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe the patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific, which may not be possible; • discontinue manufacturing or other processes that incorporate technology that infringes the patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific; • become subject to a compulsory license order under which we would be required to pay Boston Scientific a royalty on future sales of our products; and/or • obtain a license from Boston Scientific to use the relevant patents, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If our microcoil devices were found to infringe, any development or acquisition of products or technologies that do not infringe the patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we were required to but could not obtain a license under the patent claims asserted by Boston Scientific, we would likely be prevented from commercializing or further commercializing the relevant products. We believe that it is unlikely that we would be able to obtain a license under the patent claims being asserted by Boston Scientific. If we need to redesign our products to avoid the patent claims being asserted by Boston Scientific, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to the redesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining approval. 22 Table of Contents As a result of Boston Scientific’s answer to our counterclaim that Boston Scientific infringes three of our patents, the validity of those patents is now at issue in the lawsuit. The court could find that those patents are invalid, which would prevent us from asserting those patents against third parties. An unfavorable outcome for us in this patent litigation would significantly harm our business and may cause us to materially change our business model. We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since inception, and expect to continue to incur losses, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1996, and began commercial sales of our microcoil products in 2000. We have yet to demonstrate that we can generate sufficient sales of our products to become profitable. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including losses of approximately $8.3 million in fiscal 2006, $6.7 million in fiscal 2005 and $2.0 million in fiscal 2004. At March 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $49.6 million. It is possible that we will never generate sufficient revenues from product sales to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from our product sales, we expect that increased operating expenses will result in significant operating losses in the near term as we, among other things: • grow our internal and third-party sales and marketing forces to expand the sales of our products in the United States and internationally; • increase our research and development efforts to improve upon our existing products and develop new products; • perform clinical research and trials on our existing products and product candidates; • expand our regulatory resources in order to obtain governmental approvals for our existing product enhancements and new products; • acquire and/or license new technologies; and • expand manufacturing. As a result of these activities, we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. Our quarterly operating and financial results and our gross margins are likely to fluctuate significantly in future periods. Our quarterly operating and financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. The level of our revenues, gross margins and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • neurointerventionalist and patient acceptance of our products; • changes in the number of embolic coiling procedures performed to treat cerebral aneurysms; • the seasonality of our product sales; • the mix of our products sold; • stocking patterns for distributors; • the development of new procedures to treat cerebral aneurysms; • results of clinical research and trials on our existing products and products in development; • demand for, and pricing of, our products; • levels of third-party reimbursement for our products; 23 Table of Contents • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events involving us or our competitors; • increases in the costs of manufacturing and selling our products; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses; • litigation expenses; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • changes in our ability to obtain and maintain FDA approval or clearance for our products. • inventory adjustments we may have to make in any quarter; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • our ability to maintain and expand our sales force and operational personnel; • the ability of our suppliers to timely provide us with an adequate supply of materials and components; and • amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to any potential expansion of our operations. Many of the products we may seek to develop and introduce in the future will require FDA approval or clearance and meet similar regulatory requirements in other countries where we seek to market our products, without which we cannot begin to commercialize them. Forecasting the timing of sales of our products is difficult due to the delay inherent in seeking FDA and other clearance or approval, or the failure to obtain such clearance or approval. In addition, we will be increasing our operating expenses as we build our commercial capabilities. Accordingly, we may experience significant, unanticipated quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We may not be able to develop new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop or market new products or that any of our future products will be accepted by the neurointerventionalists who use our products or the payors who reimburse for many of the procedures performed with our products. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate interventionalist and patient needs; • develop new products or enhancements in a timely manner; • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new products or product enhancements; • provide adequate training to potential users of our products; • receive adequate reimbursement for our procedures; and • develop an effective marketing and distribution network. 24 Table of Contents If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for our products or enhancements, we may not achieve expected revenue levels and our business will suffer. Our international operations and our relationships with physicians and other consultants require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We are required to comply with a number of international regulations related to sales of medical devices and contractual relationships with physicians in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing him or her to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. In August 2004 while reviewing our sales and payment procedures, we identified certain payments we made to physicians outside the United States that may have violated the FCPA and the laws of certain foreign countries. Following an internal investigation, we voluntarily disclosed to the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) the factual information obtained in our internal investigation of potential violations of the FCPA. After reviewing the results of the internal investigation and the compliance procedures implemented by us, the DOJ entered into an agreement (the “DOJ Agreement”) with us in February 2005. Pursuant to that agreement, the DOJ will not prosecute us for the conduct disclosed to the DOJ, and we agreed to various conditions, including establishing policies and procedures to assure compliance with the FCPA and other relevant anti-bribery laws, retaining an independent law firm to act as a monitor for purposes of reporting to the DOJ for a period of three years as to our compliance with the DOJ Agreement and to monitor our implementation of and adherence to FCPA compliance policies and procedures, and fully cooperating with the DOJ, the independent monitor, and the SEC. We must remain in complete compliance with these conditions for a period of two years, or face the filing of a criminal complaint against us. The terms of the DOJ Agreement will bind our successors, or any merger partners, as long as the DOJ Agreement is in effect. The payments we made to physicians in France, Germany, Spain and Turkey also may have likely violated the applicable laws in those foreign jurisdictions and may possibly have violated laws in Switzerland, where our Swiss subsidiary is located. We are not able to determine at this time what penalties or other sanctions, if any, authorities in France, Germany, Spain, Turkey or Switzerland may impose on us as a result of such violations. Though we have adopted a number of compliance procedures, including adoption of a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy and related procedures, and appointed a Compliance Officer, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the various regulations in foreign jurisdictions, which vary from country to country. Implementing and monitoring such compliance procedures in a number of foreign jurisdictions can be very expensive and time-consuming. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties and/or restrictions in our ability to sell products in certain foreign jurisdictions. We are in a highly competitive market segment, face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers with significant resources, and may not be able to increase penetration in our markets or otherwise compete effectively. The market for medical devices for treatment of cerebral vascular diseases is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We compete primarily with the Target Therapeutics division of Boston Scientific Corporation, the market leader, as well as the Cordis division of Johnson & Johnson, ev3/ Micro Therapeutics and Terumo/ MicroVention. At any time, other companies may develop alternative 25 Table of Contents treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of cerebral aneurysms that compete directly or indirectly with our products. If alternative treatments prove to be superior to our microcoil or other products, continued use or adoption of our products could be negatively affected and our future revenues could suffer. In addition, most of our current and potential competitors are either large publicly traded or divisions or subsidiaries of large publicly traded companies, and enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • greater financial and personnel resources; • significantly greater name recognition; • established relationships with neurointerventionalists; • established distribution networks; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining FDA, and other regulatory approvals for products and product enhancements, and greater experience in developing compliance programs for compliance with numerous federal, state, local and similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions; • greater resources for product research and development; • greater experience in, and resources for, launching, marketing, distributing and selling products; and • broader product lines. Except for our distribution agreement with Goodman, none of our customers has long-term purchase agreements with us and may at any time switch to the use of our competitors’ products. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential future competitors and sales of our products and our revenues may decline. Our sales in international markets subject us to foreign currency exchange and other risks and costs that could harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from outside the U.S. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, revenues from customers outside the U.S. represented approximately 50%, 48% and 53% respectively, of our revenues. We anticipate that revenues from international customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues as we expand in new international markets including China and Japan. Because we generate revenues in foreign currencies, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, approximately 42% of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our Swiss subsidiary is the Swiss franc. In Europe, our revenues are denominated in Swiss francs, euros, pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we are exposed to market risk related to changes between the Swiss franc and these other currencies in which we conduct business. If the Swiss franc appreciates against the currencies in which our receivables are denominated, we will recognize foreign currency losses. For the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the financial results of our Swiss and UK subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates during the applicable period. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Swiss franc and pounds sterling, the revenues we recognize from sales by our European subsidiaries will be adversely impacted. Historically, we have also been exposed to risks from fluctuations in currency exchange rates due to intercompany loans made to Micrus SA, our Swiss subsidiary, in 2001 in connection with its incorporation. These loans are denominated in Swiss francs and will fluctuate in value against the U.S. dollar, causing us to recognize foreign exchange gains and losses. Foreign exchange gains or losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations in any given period could harm our operating results and negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, if the effective price of our products were to increase as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, demand for our products could decline and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to various additional risks as a consequence of doing business internationally, and, in particular in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela, Greece and Turkey, each of which could harm our business, including the following: • local economic and political instability or other potentially adverse conditions; • lack of experience in certain geographical markets; • unexpected delays or changes in regulatory requirements; • increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivables in certain foreign countries; • delays and expenses associated with tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties and costs associated with attracting and maintaining third party distributors; • compliance with foreign laws and regulations; and • adverse tax consequences or overlapping tax structures. If we fail to increase our direct sales force in a timely manner, our business could suffer. We have a limited domestic and international direct sales force. We also have a distribution network for sales in the major markets in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. As we launch new products and increase our marketing efforts with respect to existing products, we will need to significantly expand the number of our direct sales personnel on a worldwide basis. The establishment and development of a more extensive sales force will be expensive and time consuming. There is significant competition for sales personnel experienced in interventional medical device sales. If we are unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified sales personnel and thereby increase our sales force, we may not be able to increase our revenues. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of rapid growth and expansion, which have placed, and will likely continue to place, a significant strain on our limited personnel and other resources. In particular, the expansion of our fabrication facility and the continuing expansion of our direct sales force will require significant management, technical and administrative resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively, could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. To achieve our revenue goals, we must successfully increase production in our fabrication facility as required by customer demand. We may in the future experience difficulties in increasing production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance and in satisfying and maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements. These problems could result in delays in product availability and increases in expenses. Any such delay or increased expense could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. In order to manage our operations and growth we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy and our operating results and business could suffer. 27 Table of Contents We can provide no assurance regarding our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions at March 31, 2007 with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”) will require us to include an internal controls report from management in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and in subsequent Annual Reports. The internal control report must include a statement: • about management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting; • identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; • concerning management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2007, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective; and • that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have and will be required to continue to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404. We have not completed our assessment as required by Section 404, and our independent registered accounting firm has not been engaged to express and has not expressed, an opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. However, in connection with its audit of our 2006 fiscal year our independent registered accounting firm identified significant deficiencies in our internal controls. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. We are in the process of hiring additional accounting personnel, and management believes that the identified significant deficiencies will be remedied by the hiring of such personnel. Through fiscal 2007 we anticipate significant growth in our business, including international expansion. As a result, given the risks inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions at March 31, 2007 with respect to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively, we would be required to disclose at such time that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In addition, our registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls or may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and which could affect our ability to run our business as we otherwise would like to. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash position, together with the cash to be generated from expected product sales will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, after such period we may be required to seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under lease lines or other sources. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the revenues generated by sales of our products; • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts; • the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products; 28 Table of Contents • the costs of developing and or acquiring new products or technologies; • the cost of obtaining and maintaining U.S Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approval or clearance of our products and products in development; • costs associated with our litigation with Boston Scientific; • the expenses we incur related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions; • costs associated with compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations affecting public companies recently promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market; • the costs associated with our facilities expansion, if any; and • the costs associated with increased capital expenditures. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. In these events, our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals would be adversely affected. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or to successfully integrate them in a cost effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. We may in the future pursue the acquisition of additional complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our business and operating results. We are dependent on single source suppliers for components and materials used in our devices, and the loss of any of these suppliers, or their inability to supply us with an adequate supply of materials, could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for components and materials used in our products and rely on single sources for many of the microcoil and delivery system components, including tubing, connectors and sterilization services. Our dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, delivery schedules and supplier compliance with regulatory requirements. Any delays in delivery of such components or provision of such services or shortages of such components could cause delays in the shipment of our products, which could significantly harm our business. We generally acquire our single source components pursuant to purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with any of our single source suppliers. Because of our reliance on these vendors, we may also be subject to increases in component 29 Table of Contents costs. These increases could significantly harm our business. For us to be successful, our third-party suppliers must also be able to provide us with the materials and components of our products in substantial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our anticipated growth may strain the ability of suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of materials and components. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components and materials to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer. If any one or more of our third-party suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our materials or components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We could incur delays while we locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers and we might be unable to engage alternative suppliers on favorable terms. Any such disruption or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We rely on independent contract manufacturers for the manufacture and assembly of certain of our products and components. Reliance on independent contract manufacturers involves several risks, including the potential inadequacy of capacity, the unavailability of or interruptions in access to certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, compliance with regulatory requirements, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Such manufacturers have possession of and at times title to molds for certain manufactured components of our products. Shortages of raw materials, production capacity constraints or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such reduction, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or increases in the prices of components, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have no supply agreements with our current contract manufacturers and utilize purchase orders which are subject to supplier acceptance. The unanticipated loss of any of our contract manufacturers could cause delays in our ability to deliver product while we identify and qualify a replacement manufacturer. If our current or future independent contract manufacturers are unable to meet our requirements for manufactured components, our business could suffer. Our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes or other natural disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing, development and management activities at a single location in Silicon Valley, California, near known earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, any future natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our inventory held on consignment by our intended customers, we will not achieve our expected results. A significant portion of our inventory is held on consignment by hospitals that purchase the inventory as they use it. In these consignment locations, we do not have physical possession of the consigned inventory. We therefore have to rely on information from our customers as well as periodic inspections by our sales personnel to determine when our products have been used. We have in the past experienced problems managing appropriate consigned inventory levels and as a result we recorded an impairment of inventory for anticipated obsolescence in fiscal 2004 and an impairment of excess inventory in both fiscal 2004 and 2005. If we are not able to effectively manage appropriate consigned inventory levels, we may suffer inventory losses that will reduce our gross profit levels. There can be no assurance that any efforts to strengthen our monitoring and management of consigned inventory will be adequate to meaningfully reduce the risk of inventory loss. 30 Table of Contents We are dependent on our senior management team, key clinical advisors and scientific personnel, and the loss of any of them could harm our business. Our continued success depends in part upon the continued availability and contributions of our senior management team and the continued participation of our key clinical advisors. We have entered into letter agreements with certain members of our senior management team, but none of these agreements guaranty the services of the individual for a specified period of time. We also rely on the skills and talents of our scientific personnel because of the complexity of our products. The loss of members of our senior management, key clinical advisors or scientific personnel, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation, which could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s time and efforts and require us to pay damages. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we may in the future be subject to further litigation and administrative proceedings over such rights with other companies in our industry. As we have discussed above with respect to our current litigation with Boston Scientific, whether a product or method infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues rendering the outcome of any patent dispute largely unpredictable. In the future, other competitors may assert that at least one of our products, its components, or the methods we employ in the use or manufacture of our products are covered by and infringe the competitors’ U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, should our patents or applications have claims that encompass the same scope as claims pending or issued to a third party competitor, that third party may claim that its claims have priority over ours because they invented the claimed subject matter first. Because patent applications generally take many years to issue, there may be third party applications presently pending of which we are unaware, that may in the future result in issued patents that at least one of our products, its components, or the methods we employ in the use or manufacture of our product(s) may infringe. There could also be issued patents that one or more components of our products may inadvertently be infringing, of which we are unaware. As the number of participants in the market for cerebral vascular treatments and the number of issued patents in this technology area grows, the possibility of being charged with patent infringement increases. As we have discussed above with respect to our litigation with Boston Scientific, any infringement claims against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patent claims are upheld as valid and enforceable and we are found to infringe, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products or practice the methods we employ in the use or manufacture of our products. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to procure proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not be sufficient to adequately protect our intellectual property or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, any of our pending U.S. or foreign patent applications may ultimately not issue as a patent or, alternatively, may issue with claims that are of little or no value to us. In addition, once issued, a valuable patent may be challenged successfully by third parties and invalidated, such as is being attempted by Boston Scientific in our presently ongoing litigation. In addition, our patent protection for 31 Table of Contents material aspects of our products and methods is presently being pursued with applications that have been filed but not issued, such that these material aspects are not presently protected by patents. Competitors may further be able to get around having to license our technology in order to avoid infringement by designing around our issued and published patent claims, thereby staying clear of our proprietary rights. Similarly, competitors may develop products and methods that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Both the process of procuring patent rights and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be prolonged, costly and could divert our management’s attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, or to comply with similar regulatory requirements in other countries where we market our products, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our medical devices are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearances or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures or the need to invest substantial resources to comply with various existing or new requirements. In the more egregious cases, criminal sanctions, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval application, or PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product has the same intended use, is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed device, including a 510(k)-cleared product, and otherwise meets the FDA’s requirements. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and requires the development and submission of clinical studies supporting the safety and effectiveness of the device. Product modifications may also require the submission of a new 510(k) clearance, or the approval of a PMA before the modified product can be marketed. Changes in labeling and manufacturing site for a PMA approved device may require the submission and approval of a PMA supplement. Any products we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval may be delayed, if approved at all. In addition, we believe that some of our new products will require an approved PMA before we can commercially distribute the device and we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process instead of the more lengthy PMA requirements. Additionally, certain of our products under development may involve both device and drug or biologic regulation and we will need to comply with drug and biologic regulations in addition to medical device requirements. Accordingly, we anticipate that the regulatory review and approval process for some of our future products or product enhancements may take significantly longer than anticipated or that we have experienced in the past. We will also be required to pay a medical device user fee and may also be required to pay a drug or biologic user fee. There is no assurance that the FDA will not require that a certain new product or product enhancement go through the lengthy and expensive PMA approval process. We have no experience in obtaining PMA approval. We also have no experience in obtaining drug or 32 Table of Contents biologic approval, and will need to rely on third party assistance in navigating the regulatory approval pathway for future combination products. Further, pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Certain of our products may be used by physicians for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, but we cannot promote the products for such off-label uses. Modifications to our marketed products may require new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, PMA approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review a manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with any of our past or future decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for any modification to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing and/or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Further, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe, including but not limited to new safety data from use of the product, or manufacturing defects. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in delays, fines, costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces these quality system regulations through unannounced inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fail a quality system regulations inspection or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, or is very expensive or time consuming to implement, the manufacture of our products could be delayed until satisfactory corrections are made, or in the event we are unable to correct the problems we may not be able to continue manufacturing and distributing the particular device or devices. Such a delay potentially could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and revenues. If interventionalists are unable to obtain sufficient reimbursement for procedures performed with our products, it is unlikely that our products will be widely used. Successful sales of our products will depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices for treatment of their patients, generally rely on third-party payors to cover the use of the product for the particular procedure and reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Currently, the costs of our products distributed domestically are being reimbursed by third party payors. There is no guarantee that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be available in the future for our existing and/or new products. Both public and private insurance reimbursement plans are central to new product acceptance. Neurointerventionalists are unlikely to use our products if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of our products and related procedures. In international markets, market acceptance may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. Currently, the costs of our products distributed internationally, other than in some Latin American countries, are being reimbursed by public and private healthcare insurers. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all, our failure to receive 33 Table of Contents international reimbursement approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. In addition, in certain countries, such as France, Germany and Japan, we are required to obtain regulatory clearance for our products to be eligible for reimbursements by third party payors, even though reimbursement for embolic coiling procedures is already in place. Future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our existing products or our products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Recent changes in accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, will result in unfavorable accounting charges and could require us to change our compensation policies. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which replaced SFAS No. 123 and superseded APB 25. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies will no longer be able to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method in accordance with APB 25 but will be required to account for such transactions using a fair-value method and recognize the expense in the consolidated statement of earnings. We will need to comply with SFAS No. 123R as of the first quarter of fiscal 2007. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, we currently account for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 and, as such, generally recognize no compensation cost for employee stock options. Accordingly, the adoption of the fair value method of SFAS No. 123R will have a significant impact on our results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position. The impact of adoption of SFAS No. 123R cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. While SFAS No. 123R permits entities to continue the use of the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, SFAS No. 123R also permits the use of a “binomial model.” Based on our research on the alternative models available to value option grants, and in conjunction with the type and number of stock options we expect to issue in the future, we have determined that we will continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock option valuation upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Accordingly, our adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a significant impact on the results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position. We may become subject to product liability claims which could require us to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices for neurointerventional procedures. These procedures involve significant risk of serious complications, including intracranial bleeding, brain injury, paralysis and even death. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we could have to pay an amount in excess of policy limits, which would have to be paid out of cash reserves. If longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component cause tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. Finally, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 34 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize product candidates, which could severely harm our business. The price of our common stock has fluctuated and we expect will continue to fluctuate substantially and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above your purchase price. The market price of our common stock has been and we expect will continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • volume and timing of orders for our products; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance for, and market, new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • product liability claims or other litigation; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Furthermore, to the extent there is an inactive market for our common stock, the value of your shares and your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them may be impaired. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies, products or technologies by using our shares as consideration. Because of their significant stock ownership, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. Based on shares outstanding at March 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors, and stockholders holding more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates will, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 46.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or 35 Table of Contents substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Further, three of our eight current directors were designated by our principal stockholders which may increase such stockholders’ influence relating to matters submitted to the Board of Directors. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market A significant portion of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover certain holders of our common stock have the right to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have registered 4,972,187 shares of common stock that we may issue under our 1998 Stock Plan, 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. The sale by any of these holders of a large number of securities in the public market could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We may incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and by the Nasdaq National Market, could result in increased costs to us. The new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market in general, the Nasdaq National Market and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of medical device companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even an acquisition which would be beneficial to our stockholders, and thereby affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; • prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 662/3 % stockholder approval; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 