RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Group’s Business Business Environment The Group has incurred losses in prior periods, and may incur losses in future periods as well. The Group can make no assurances that sustained operating profitability or net profitability can be achieved due to several factors including, but not limited to: • as the Group seeks to achieve organic growth, additional investment in product development activities will be necessary; • product costs and profit margins may be unfavorably impacted due to appreciation of the Renminbi; • ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will continue to increase general and administrative expenses; • changes in accounting standards such as recognition of compensation costs relating to employee stock option plan in accordance to SFAS 123R may increase the Group’s operating expenses; • competition in the toy industry will continue to exert price pressure, causing an unfavorable impact upon the Group’s net sales per unit; • failure to achieve the Group’s current strategic initiatives to increase market awareness of the company, its products and its brands. Many of the Group’s expenses are relatively fixed, and cannot be quickly reduced if the actual revenues are lower than expected. As a result of such fixed expenses, revenue shortfalls could result in lower income or result in greater losses than anticipated for any given period. Competition The Group faces significant competition. In branded toys and collectibles, Corgi competes with numerous companies located all over the world including, but not limited to, Mattel, Hasbro, Funrise, Dragon, Armour/Franklin Mint, IXO, Model Power, Forces of Valor, and Die Cast Promotions. The Group owns certain trademarks and other intellectual property rights associated with Corgi and its wholly owned subsidiary Lledo Collectibles Ltd. (“Lledo”). Key trademarks are registered in the substantive territories in which the Group operates or distributes its products. The Group’s key employees have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with the Group. 5 Dependence on Major Vendors Corgi utilizes several OEM manufacturers, all based in the PRC, to produce its products; however, approximately two-thirds of its product is produced at Zindart Manufacturing. If, subsequent to the disposal of Zindart Manufacturing, the successor to Zindart Manufacturing determines not to continue producing Corgi’s products, Corgi would be forced to identify alternate manufacturers to produce these products. Several quality manufacturing alternatives may be available in the PRC for this purpose; but there can be no assurance that Corgi will be able to find alternate producers on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, prices charged by the alternate vendors may be higher than charged by Zindart Manufacturing. The related price increases could unfavorably impact the financial results of the Group. Negotiating Power with Customers Corgi has little price negotiating power with regard to its mass market toys, as several companies are competing to sell similar products to the same major retailers. Many substitutes to Corgi’s toy products are available in the market. Moreover, the large mass retailers have low margins and are price sensitive. The toy industry is mature and retailers have access to and are able to evaluate market information. Concentration of Credit Risk; Timely Collection of Accounts Receivable Concentration of credit risk is primarily limited to trade accounts receivable and is subject to the financial conditions of certain major customers. The Group performs an ongoing credit evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. At March 31, 2005, the Group’s five largest trade accounts receivable accounted for approximately 34% of the total gross trade accounts receivable. The Group maintains reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. However, no assurances can be given as to the ability of the Group to recover the trade accounts receivable on a timely basis, and the inability to do so on a timely basis or at all could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition. Market Acceptance; Economic Factors There can be no assurance that existing or future products of the Group or the Group’s customers will continue to receive substantial market acceptance. In addition, because a significant portion of the products manufactured and sold by the Group are sold in the U.S. and the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”), the Group’s profitability also depends on the strength of the U.S. and U.K. economies, which can affect U.S. and U.K. consumers’ spending habits on such items as die-cast collectibles. Any downturn in the U.S. or U.K. economies could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Key Personnel The success of the Group is substantially dependent upon its executive management, as well as upon its ability to attract and retain qualified design, manufacturing and marketing personnel. The loss of any of the Group’s current executive management team for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Group. The Group is not the beneficiary of any “key person” life insurance policy on any such person. Seasonality The Group’s operating results in the past have fluctuated in part based on seasonal factors and this seasonality is likely to continue in the future. The sale of Corgi’s licensed mass-market products may increase substantially in coordination with the launch of a related movie or other event. Sales of other products may increase substantially during the winter holiday season. 6 Potential Product Liability Use of the Group’s products could result in possible claims for injury or damage. The Group is not currently, nor has it been in the past, a defendant in any product liability lawsuit. A successful claim brought against the Group by a customer or a consumer and the adverse publicity that could accompany any such claim could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corgi division does carry liability insurance against possible liability claims. Government Regulations U.S. customers of the Group are subject to the provisions of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act and the Federal Consumer Product Safety Act. These laws empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to protect consumers from hazardous toys and other articles. The CPSC has the authority to exclude products from the market that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and can require a recall of such products under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the U.S., as well as in foreign jurisdictions. The Group relies on its customers to design products that comply with such safety standards and to test the products to ensure compliance with applicable regulatory safety standards. While the Group believes that its customers design and test the products the Group manufactures for compliance with regulatory standards, and the Group itself maintains quality assurance procedures, there can be no assurance that the Group’s products will not be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Group. In addition, there can be no assurance that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that the Group’s products will not be marketed in the future in countries with more restrictive laws, rules and regulations, either of which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, and which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Tariffs and Quotas Most of the Group’s products are shipped to customers in the U.S. and the U.K.. The U.S. and U.K. may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, or other charges or restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, which could adversely affect the Group’s ability to continue to export products to the U.S. or U.K. at current or increased levels. The Group cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur, if any, or the type or extent of any financial impact on the Group that such changes may have in the future. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been proposed in the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union. Adverse changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Country Risks Political, Social and Economic Environment. The political, social and economic environment in the PRC may have an adverse impact on the Company’s investment in the PRC. The PRC is controlled by the Communist Party of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization; however, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. 7 Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation or reform money-losing state-owned enterprises, the inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure or the unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials and parts, or a deterioration of the general political, economic or social environment in the PRC, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a deterioration of political relations between the U.S. and the PRC or the U.K. and the PRC may adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, as the Group’s administrative, finance and accounting activities are located in Hong Kong, the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political situation in Hong Kong and by the general state of the Hong Kong economy. As a result, the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the general political, social and economic situation in the PRC, Hong Kong, U.K. and the U.S.. Accordingly, the Group may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs, duties and quotas. Government Control Over Economy. The PRC only recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Accordingly, PRC government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support current economic reform programs and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic reform policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof. Any such developments could affect current operations of and property ownership by foreign investors. PRC Law; Evolving Regulations and Policies. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system in the U.S.. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of law governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation. In addition, the legal system of the PRC relating to foreign investments is both new and continually evolving, and currently there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published, statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting, and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation, discretion and modification, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. As the legal system in the PRC develops with respect to these new types of enterprises, foreign investors may be adversely affected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof) and the preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. In circumstances where adequate laws exist, it may not be possible to obtain timely and equitable enforcement thereof. The Group’s activities in the PRC are by law subject, in some circumstances, to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of the PRC government. Although the Group believes that the present level of support from local, provincial and national governmental entities enjoyed by the Group benefits the Group’s operations in connection with administrative review and the receipt of approvals, there is no assurance that such approvals, when necessary or advisable in the future, will be forthcoming. The inability to obtain such approvals could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 On July 1, 1997, sovereignty over Hong Kong was transferred from the U.K. to the PRC, and Hong Kong became a Special Administrative Region (“SAR”) of the PRC. As provided in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong and the Basic Law of the Hong Kong SAR of the PRC (the “Basic Law”), the Hong Kong SAR is to have a high degree of autonomy from PRC except in foreign affairs and defense. Under the Basic Law, the Hong Kong SAR has its own legislature, legal and judicial system and economic autonomy for 50 years. Based on current political conditions and the Group’s understanding of the Basic Law, the Group does not believe that the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong has had or will have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that changes in political, legal or other conditions will not result in such an adverse effect. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced the end of the Renminbi (“RMB”) peg to the U.S. dollar. The bank increased the value of the RMB to 8.11 to one U.S. dollar – a 2.1% increase in its value – and decreed that henceforth the RMB would trade within a narrow band of 0.3% each day against a basket of currencies. Eliminating the dollar peg is seen by some economists as a first step toward a free-floating, and stronger, RMB. Uncertainty exists as to whether the PRC’s new currency policy will support further appreciation of the RMB. The Group sources most of its finished products in the PRC. The appreciation of RMB will increase the Group’s product costs and may reduce the Group’s sales, especially to U.S. and European distributors and retailers. Dependence on Trade Credit As of March 31, 2005, Zindart Manufacturing and Corgi had $7.5 million and $3.6 million of short-term, trade-related debt outstanding, respectively. Cash balances at March 31, 2005 were $7.0 million. Since March 31, 2005, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. (“RBS”) has reduced its available line by GBP500,000 to GBP2.5 million and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (“HSBC”) has set the final extension of a $2.6 million temporary line to July 31, 2005. Total reduction of available bank lines by August 1, 2005 was $3.5 million. RBS may reduce its line further without notice. Assuming a total reduction of $3.5 million, the Group will have $14.4 million in the aggregate in available credit under its bank lines. In the event that the Group requires additional capital, it may be required to issue additional equity securities, which could result in dilution to existing stockholders, or to borrow funds, which could adversely affect operating results. Goodwill Impairment The Group’s largest asset is goodwill, with a carrying value of $35.3 million as of March 31, 2005 and relates to the acquisition of Corgi in July, 1999. The fair value of the Corgi business segment is estimated on an annual basis and compared to the net book value of this business segment, including goodwill, in order to identify potential goodwill impairment in the value of the assets. To date, impairment of the Corgi goodwill has not been observed as the estimated fair value of the Corgi business segment exceeded the carrying value of the business segment, including the existing goodwill. Any deterioration of the expected future performance of the Corgi business segment may reduce the estimated fair value of the business segment such that an impairment of goodwill may be recognized. Sale of Zindart Manufacturing We expect to complete the sale of Zindart Manufacturing in the second quarter of fiscal year 2006. However, there can be no assurance that the sale will be completed in this timeframe, or at all. If we are unable to complete the sale of Zindart Manufacturing, or if there is a material delay in completing the sale, the operation may be reclassified as a continuing operation. Such a reclassification would materially alter the Group’s financial statement presentation, but would not change the historical net loss, total assets, or shareholders’ equity. 9 Risks Associated with the Company’s American Depositary Shares Limited Reporting Requirements As a foreign private issuer, the Group is exempt from certain rules and regulations of the Exchange Act, including those prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. And its officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, the Group is not required to publish financial statements as frequently, as promptly or containing the same information as U.S. companies. Limited Public Market; Possible Volatility of Market Price of ADSs The public trading volume of the Company’s American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) at times has been limited. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market for the ADSs will develop or that, if developed, it will be sustained. Further, there is no public market for the Ordinary Shares underlying the ADSs. In the past several years, many foreign issuers with market capitalization similar to that of the Group have been unable to sustain an active trading market for their securities. The market price for the ADSs going forward may be highly volatile, as has been the case with the ADSs and the securities of other companies located in emerging market countries. The market price of the ADSs may fluctuate substantially in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Group’s control. 