ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Ownership of our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in economic conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: · Economic conditions that negatively affect real estate values and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in a deterioration in credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolio, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on the Company’s business. · Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. · The processes the Company uses to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · The Company expects to face increased regulation of its industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. As these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition. Deteriorating economic conditions in California may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our loans and reduce the value of the assets we hold as collateral. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Southern California. As a result, the continued deterioration in economic conditions in Southern California may cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. In addition, demand for our products and services may decline. The significant decline in the Southern California real estate market could hurt our business because the vast majority of our loans are secured by real estate located within Southern California. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 89.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Southern California. As real estate values continue to decline, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our loans provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We may be unable to successfully compete in our industry. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases, a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks and mortgage companies that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition banks with larger capitalizations and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have, and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans that we originate and the quality of service that we provide to our borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, we rely upon local promotional activities, personal relationships established by our officers, directors and employees and specialized services tailored to meet the individual needs of our customers in order to compete. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected. Interest rate fluctuations, which are out of our control, could harm profitability. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Any change in general market interest rates, whether as a result of changes in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board or otherwise, may have a significant effect on net interest income. The assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions. Moreover, in periods of rising interest rates, financial institutions typically originate fewer mortgage loans adversely affecting our interest income on loans. Further, if interest rates decline, our loans may be refinanced at lower rates or paid off and our investments may be prepaid earlier than expected. If that occurs, we may have to redeploy the loan or investment proceeds into lower yielding assets, which might also decrease our income. We may experience loan losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses. We try to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans, nevertheless losses can and do occur. We create an allowance for estimated loan losses in our accounting records, based on estimates of the following: · industry historical losses as reported by the FDIC; · historical experience with our loans; · evaluation of economic conditions; · regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; · regular reviews of delinquencies; and · the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb any specifically identified losses, as well as, any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including the sharp decline in real estate values and changes in interest rates, which are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the amount reserved, it will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the DFI, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Either agency may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by them could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Upon exercise of warrants for our common stock shareholders will experience significant dilution in their shares of common stock. We have warrants representing the right to purchase 1,166,400 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.75 per share were outstanding as of December 31, 2008. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock subject to these warrants represents approximately 19.2% of our issued and outstanding shares as of December 31, 2008. The trading price of our common stock has been significantly higher than $0.75 per share for the last three fiscal years and at December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock was $4.00 per share. Upon exercise of the Warrant, existing shareholders will experience significant dilution of the shares of our common stock that they hold. Adverse outcomes of litigation against us could harm our business and results of operations. We are currently involved in litigation involving the prior management’s origination and sale of subprime mortgages, as well as other actions arising in the ordinary course of our business. A significant judgment against us in connection with any pending or future litigation could harm our business and results of operations. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to reinvest our earnings in our business. In addition, in order to pay cash dividends to our shareholders, we would most likely need to obtain funds from the Bank. The Bank’s ability, in turn, to pay dividends to us is subject to restrictions set forth in the Financial Code. The Financial Code provides that a bank may not make a cash distribution to its shareholders in excess of the lesser of (a) bank’s retained earnings; or (b) bank’s net income for its last three fiscal years, less the amount of any distributions made by the bank or by any majority-owned subsidiary of the bank to the shareholders of the bank during such period. However, a bank may, with the approval of the DFI, make a distribution to its shareholders in an amount not exceeding the greatest of (x) its retained earnings; (y) its net income for its last fiscal year; or (z) its net income for its current fiscal year. In the event that the DFI determines that the shareholders’ equity of a bank is inadequate or that the making of a distribution by the bank would be unsafe or unsound, the DFI may order the bank to refrain from making a proposed distribution. Additionally, while the Federal Reserve has no general restriction with respect to the payment of cash dividends by an adequately capitalized bank to its parent holding company, the Federal Reserve might, under certain circumstances, place restrictions on the ability of a particular bank to pay dividends based upon peer group averages and the performance and maturity of the particular bank, or object to management fees to be paid by a subsidiary bank to its holding company on the basis that such fees cannot be supported by the value of the services rendered or are not the result of an arm’s length transaction. Under these provisions, the amount available for distribution from the Bank to the Corporation was approximately $9.4 million at December 31, 2008. Changes in laws, government regulation and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. Financial institutions have been the subject of substantial legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance with applicable laws and regulations have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for us, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on us or our borrowers, and therefore on our results of operations. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the Treasury of certain troubled assets from financial institutions and the direct purchase by the Treasury of equity of financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its Common Stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration and the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the foregoing or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, current initiatives of President Obama’s Administration, the possible enactment of recently proposed bankruptcy legislation, and the current level of foreclosure activities, may result in increased charge-offs which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. The affects of such recently enacted, and proposed, legislation and regulatory programs on the Company cannot reliably be determined at this time. Anti-takeover defenses may delay or prevent future transactions Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, among other things: · divide the board of directors into three classes with directors of each class serving for a staggered three year period; · provides that our directors must fill vacancies on the board; · permit the issuance, without shareholder approval, of shares of preferred stock having rights and preferences determined by the board of directors; · provide that stockholders holding 80% of our issued and outstanding shares must vote to approve certain business combinations and other transactions involving holders of more than 10% of our common stock or our affiliates; · provide that stockholders holding 80% of our issued and outstanding shares must vote to remove directors for cause; and · provide that record holders of our common stock who beneficially own in excess of 10% of our common stock are not entitled to vote shares held by them in excess of 10% of our common stock. These provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make the removal of incumbent directors more difficult and time-consuming and may have the effect of discouraging a tender offer or other takeover attempts not previously approved by our board of directors. We are dependent on our key personnel Our future operating results depend in large part on the continued services of our key personnel, including Steven R. Gardner, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who developed and implemented our new business strategy. The loss of Mr. Gardner could have a negative impact on the success of our new business strategy. In addition, we rely upon the services of John Shindler, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Eddie Wilcox, our Executive Vice President and Chief Banking Officer, and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. On December 19, 2007, we entered into a three year employment agreement with Mr. Gardner and the Bank entered into three-year employment agreements with each of Messrs. Shindler and Wilcox. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any employee other than Messrs Gardner and Shindler. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We have evaluated merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our stock’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. We do not currently have any specific plans, arrangements or understandings regarding such expansion. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate future acquisitions or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In attempting to make such acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; · Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; · Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; · Potential disruption to our business; · Potential diversion of management’s time and attention; · The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; · Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and · Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 