Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic or financial conditions may reduce or defer the demand for project-based enterprise applications software and solutions. The demand for project-based enterprise applications software and solutions historically has fluctuated based upon a variety of factors, including the business and financial condition of our customers and on economic and financial conditions that affect the key sectors in which our customers operate. Economic downturns or unfavorable changes in the financial and credit markets in both the United States and broader international markets, including economic recessions, could have an adverse effect on the operations, budgets and overall financial condition of our customers. As a result, our customers may reduce their overall spending on information technology, purchase fewer of our products or solutions, lengthen sales cycles, or delay, defer or cancel purchases of our products or solutions. Furthermore, our customers may be less able to timely finance or pay for the products which they have purchased or could be forced into a bankruptcy or restructuring process, which could limit our ability to recover amounts owed to us. If any of our customers cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to recover amounts owed to us for software license fees, consulting and implementation services or software maintenance may be severely impaired. In addition, the financial and overall condition of third-party solutions’ providers and resellers of our products and solutions may be affected by adverse conditions in the economy and the financial and credit markets, which may adversely affect the sale of our products or solutions. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, resellers accounted for approximately 11% of our software license fee revenue. We cannot predict the impact, timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, or of any disruption in the financial and credit markets. If the challenges in the financial and credit markets or the downturn in the economy or the markets in which we operate persist or worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition, cash flow, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate, and as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could decline. Historically, our operating results have varied from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Consequently, we believe that investors should not view our historical revenue and other operating results as an indicator of our future performance. A number of factors contribute to the variability in our revenue and other operating results, including the following: • global and domestic economic and financial conditions; • the number and timing of major customer contract wins, which tend to be unpredictable and which may disproportionately impact our software license fee revenue and operating results; • the highest concentration of our software license sales is typically in the last month of each quarter resulting in diminished predictability of our quarterly results; • the higher concentration of our software license sales in the last quarter of each fiscal year, resulting in diminished predictability of our annual results; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchases, varying budget cycles and amounts available to fund purchases resulting in varying demand for our products and services; • delays or deferrals by customers in the implementation of our products; 13 • the level of product and price competition; • the length of our sales cycles; • the timing of recognition of deferred revenue; • any significant change in the number of customers renewing or terminating maintenance agreements with us; • our ability to deliver and market new software enhancements and products; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • the relative mix of products and services we sell; • developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or those of our competitors; and • our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. As a result of these and other factors, our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our expansion of licensing vehicles, including subscription and on-demand pricing for our software and information solutions, could delay the recognition of revenue into subsequent quarters, and our operating results in any particular quarter may not be reflective of our actual performance. As we expand our business by providing additional licensing and subscription opportunities to our customers, the existing accounting rules may require us to delay the recognition of revenue into subsequent quarters. This could also be the case if, for example: • the software transactions include both currently deliverable software products and software products that are under development or require other undeliverable elements; • a particular customer requires services that include significant modifications, customizations or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance; • the software transactions involve customer acceptance criteria; • there are identified product-related issues, such as known defects; • we sell subscription offerings in conjunction with perpetual licenses and we are not able to separate recognition of the software license fee revenue and must therefore recognize revenue ratably over the subscription term; • the software transactions involve payment terms that are longer than our standard payment terms, fees that depend upon future contingencies or include fixed-price deliverable elements; or • under the applicable accounting requirements, we are unable to separate recognition of software license fee revenue from maintenance or other services-related revenue, thereby requiring us to defer software license fee revenue recognition until the services are provided. Deferral of software license fee revenue may result in significant timing differences between the completion of a sale and the actual recognition of the revenue related to that sale. In addition we generally recognize commission and other sales-related expenses associated with sales at the time they are incurred. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be reflective of our actual performance. If we are unable to effectively respond to organizational challenges as our business evolves, our revenues, profitability and business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Between 2007 and 2010 our worldwide headcount increased from more than 1,200 employees at the end of 2007 to more than 1,600 employees worldwide at the end of 2010, including our acquisitions of Maconomy and INPUT. 14 Continuing to expand and develop our business will place greater demands on our management, financial and accounting systems, information technology systems and other components of our infrastructure. To meet these demands, we continue to invest in enhanced or new systems, including enhancements to our accounting, billing and information technology systems. Although we continue to hire, train and retain employees with the specific skills needed to help address these demands, if we fail to adequately address the demands associated with the expansion and development of our business, our profitability and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in entering new market segments or further penetrating our existing market segments, our revenue or revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Our future results depend, in part, on our ability to successfully penetrate new markets, as well as to expand further into our existing markets. In order to grow our business, we may expand to other project-focused markets in which we may have less experience. Expanding into new markets requires both considerable investment and coordination of technical, support, sales, marketing and financial resources. In July 2010, we announced the completion of our acquisition of Maconomy, a multi-national provider of software solutions to professional services firms, and as a result of this acquisition expanded our operations into Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden and expanded our existing operations both in the United Kingdom and the U.S. In October 2010, we announced the completion of our acquisition of INPUT, which added industry-leading opportunity intelligence and business development capabilities to our comprehensive portfolio of government contracting solutions thereby expanding our network of government contractor customers. While we continually add functionality to our products and solutions and add additional solutions to our portfolio of solutions through acquisitions to address the specific needs of both existing customers and new customers, we may be unsuccessful in developing appropriate or complete products, devoting sufficient resources or pursuing effective strategies for product development and marketing. Our current or future products, solutions and services may not appeal to potential customers in new or existing markets. If we are unable to execute upon this element of our business strategy and expand into new markets or maintain and increase our market share in our existing markets, our revenue or revenue growth may be materially adversely affected. If our existing customers do not buy additional software or information solutions or services from us, our revenue and revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Our business model depends, in part, on the success of our efforts to maintain and increase sales to our existing customers. We have typically generated significant additional revenues from our installed customer base through the sale of additional new licenses or solutions, add-on applications, expansion of existing implementations and professional and maintenance services. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining or increasing sales to our existing customers for any number of reasons, including the failure of our customers to increase the size of their operations, our inability to deploy new applications and features for our existing products and solutions, or to introduce new products, solutions and services that are responsive to the business needs of our customers. If we fail to generate additional business from our customers, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If we do not successfully address the potential risks associated with our current or future global operations, we could experience increased costs or our operating results could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, we had customers in approximately 80 countries. Taking into account our acquisition of Maconomy, we have facilities in Denmark, the Philippines, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium and Australia. 15 Doing business internationally involves additional potential risks and challenges, including: • managing international operations, including a global workforce, multiple languages for communication and diverse cultural conventions; • conforming our products to local business practices or standards, including developing multi-lingual compatible software; • developing brand awareness for our products; • competing with local and international software vendors; • disruptions in international communications resulting from damage to, or disruptions of, telecommunications links, gateways, cables or other systems; • potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods in countries where the accounts receivable collections process may be more difficult; • potentially unstable political and economic conditions in countries in which we do business or maintain development operations; • potentially higher operating costs resulting from local laws, regulations and market conditions; • foreign currency controls and fluctuations resulting from intercompany balances or arrangements associated with our international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in a number of countries where we do business; • compliance with frequently changing governmental laws and regulations; • seasonality in business activity specific to various markets that is different than our recent historical experience; • potentially longer sales cycles in certain international markets; • potential restrictions on repatriation of earnings, including changes in the tax treatment of our international operations; and • potential restrictions on the export of technologies such as data security and encryption. These risks could increase our costs or adversely affect our operating results. If we are not successful in expanding our international business, our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. We have customers in approximately 80 countries and international markets that now account for approximately 12% of our total software license fee revenue. Nonetheless, our ability to accelerate our international expansion will require us to deliver additional product functionality and foreign language translations that are responsive to the needs of the international customers that we target. If we are unable to expand our qualified direct sales force, identify additional strategic alliance partners, or negotiate favorable alliance terms, our international growth may be hampered. Our ability to expand internationally also is dependent on our ability to raise brand recognition for our products and services in international markets and successfully integrate acquired businesses. If we are unable to further our expansion into international markets, or if we are unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve from our recent acquisition of Maconomy or any future international operation that we acquire, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our planned international expansion will require significant attention from our management as well as additional management and other resources in these markets. We may be subject to integration and other risks from acquisition activities, which could materially impair our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, complementary businesses, technologies, product lines or services organizations. In July 2010, we announced the completion of 16 our acquisition of Maconomy, an international provider of software solutions to professional services firms and in October 2010, we announced the completion of our acquisition of INPUT, which added industry-leading opportunity intelligence and business development capabilities to our comprehensive portfolio of government contracting solutions. These acquisitions added approximately 450 employees to our existing employee base and expanded our operations into five new countries—Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Belgium and the Netherlands. We may not realize the anticipated strategic or financial benefits of past or potential future acquisitions due to a variety of factors, including the following: • the potential difficulty in integrating acquired products and technology into our software applications, business strategy and operations; • the potential inability to achieve the desired revenue or cost synergies and benefits; • the potential difficulty in coordinating and integrating the sales, marketing, services, support and development activities of the acquired businesses, successfully cross selling products or services and managing the combined organizations; • the potential difficulty in retaining and motivating key employees of the acquired business, including cultural differences; • the potential difficulty and cost of establishing and integrating controls, procedures and policies; • the acquisition may result in unplanned disruptions to our ongoing business and may divert management from day-to-day operations due to a variety of factors, including integration issues; • the possibility that goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired and will need to be written off in the future; • the possibility that purchase or other accounting rules will impact timing or amount of recognized revenue, expenses or our balance sheet with respect to any acquired products or solutions; • the potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant issues, including product quality, architecture and development issues or legal and financial contingencies (including ongoing maintenance or service contract concerns); and • lack of legal protection for the intellectual property we acquire. If a significant number of our customers fail to renew or otherwise terminate their maintenance services agreements for our products, or if they are successful in renegotiating their agreements with us on terms that are unfavorable to us, our maintenance services revenues and our operating results could be materially harmed. Our customers contract with us for ongoing product maintenance and support services. Historically, maintenance services revenues have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Revenues from maintenance and support services constituted approximately 48% and 47% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our maintenance and support services are generally billed and paid in advance. A customer may cancel its maintenance services agreement prior to the beginning of the next scheduled period. At the end of a contract term, or at the time a customer has cancellation rights, a customer could seek a modification of its maintenance services agreement terms, including modifications that could result in lower maintenance fees or our providing additional services without associated fee increases. A customer may also elect to terminate its maintenance services agreement and rely on its own in-house technical staff or other third-party resources, or may replace our software with a competitor’s product. If our maintenance services business declines due to a significant number of contract terminations, or if we are forced to offer pricing or other maintenance terms that are unfavorable to us, our maintenance services revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 17 If we fail to forecast the timing of our revenues or expenses accurately, our operating results could be materially different than we anticipated. We use a variety of factors in our forecasting and planning processes, including historical trends, recent customer history, expectations of customer buying decisions, customer implementation schedules and plans, analyses by our sales and service teams, maintenance renewal rates, our assessment of economic or market conditions and many other factors. While these analyses may provide us with some guidance in business planning and expense management, these estimates are inherently imprecise and may not accurately predict the timing of our revenues or expenses. A variation in any or all of these factors, particularly in light of prevailing financial or economic conditions, could cause us to inaccurately forecast our revenues or expenses and could result in expenditures without corresponding revenue. As a result, our revenues and our operating results could be materially lower than anticipated. To maintain our competitive position, we may be forced to reduce prices or limit price increases, which could result in materially reduced revenue, margins or net income. We face significant competition across all of our product lines from a variety of sources, including larger multi-national software companies, smaller start-up organizations, point solution application providers, “SaaS” providers, specialized consulting organizations, systems integrators and internal information technology departments of existing or potential customers. Several competitors, such as Oracle and SAP, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and prospective customers and with major accounting and consulting firms that may prefer to recommend those competitors over us. Our competitors may also seek to influence some customers’ purchase decisions by offering more comprehensive horizontal product portfolios, superior global presence and more sophisticated multi-national product capabilities. To maintain our competitive position, we may be forced to reduce prices or limit price increases, which could materially reduce our revenue, margins or net income. Our indebtedness or an inability to borrow additional amounts could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations and business objectives. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $197.6 million of outstanding term loans under our existing credit facility at interest rates which are subject to market fluctuation. These term loans mature in November 2016. Our existing credit facility also provides for a $30.0 million revolving credit facility maturing in November 2015. Our indebtedness and related obligations could have important future consequences to us, such as: • potentially limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or finance our existing debt to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures or to meet existing debt service or other cash requirements; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest costs if the underlying interest rates rise significantly; • potentially limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements or other financial covenants; or • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions. Our ability to meet our existing debt service obligations will depend on many factors, including prevailing financial or economic conditions, our past performance and our financial and operational outlook. In addition, although we recently completed the extension and expansion of our credit facility, our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance our existing debt if desired or deemed necessary in light of then-existing business 18 conditions could also depend on such factors. If we do not have enough cash to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, modify our debt structure, sell assets or reduce our spending. At any given time, we may not be able to refinance our debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions contained in our credit facility, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement to be due and payable, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Since 2005, we have maintained a credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Credit Suisse. On November 3, 2010, we extended and expanded our credit facility. The credit facility is subject to covenants that, among other things, restrict both our and our subsidiaries’ ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, pay dividends, create liens on assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, change the business conducted by us and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Under our credit facility, we are also required to comply with certain financial covenants related to capital expenditures, interest coverage and leverage ratios. While we have historically complied with our financial ratio covenants, we may not be able to comply with these financial covenants in the future, which could cause all amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be due and payable, and which could limit our ability to meet ongoing or future capital needs. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions under our credit facility may be adversely affected by economic, financial, industry or other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. The potential breach of any of the covenants or restrictions under our credit facility, unless cured within the applicable grace period, could result in a default that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and foreclose on the assets that serve as security for our loans under our credit facility. In such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result, any default could have serious consequences to our financial condition. If we fail to price or market our products appropriately, our revenue and cash flow could be materially reduced. Our revenues are derived from the sale of licenses for our software products and information services. We generally sell our applications on a perpetual basis but we also have other types of licenses that provide our customers with exclusive use of our applications for a specific period of time. Our information services and research offerings are sold with access to our services and research for a fixed period of time, usually twelve months. Going forward, we expect to increase our use of term license, subscription and service-based licensing models. As a result, we may incur additional costs in adapting our products and solutions to fit multiple licensing models and determining appropriate sales strategies to leverage these opportunities. If we do not successfully develop, price or market our products and solutions to fit multiple licensing models, our software license fee revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected. If our investments in product development require greater resources than anticipated, our operating margins could be adversely affected. We expect to continue to commit significant resources to maintain and improve our existing products, including acquired products and to develop new products. For example, our product development expenses were approximately $52.6 million, or 19% of revenue in 2010 and approximately $43.4 million, or 16% of revenue, in 2009. Our current and future product development efforts may require greater resources than we expect, or may not achieve the market acceptance that we expect and, as a result, we may not achieve margins we anticipate. 19 We may also be required to price our product enhancements, product features or new products at levels below those anticipated during the product development stage, which could result in lower revenues and margins for that product than we originally anticipated. We also may experience unforeseen or unavoidable delays in delivering product enhancements, product features or new products due to factors within or outside of our control. We may encounter unforeseen or unavoidable defects or quality control issues when developing product enhancements, product features or new products, which may require additional expenditures to resolve such issues and may affect the reputation our products have for quality and reliability. If we incur greater expenditures than we expect for our product development efforts, or if our products do not succeed, our revenues or margins could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to adapt to changing technological and market trends or changing customer requirements, our market share could decline and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Historically, the business application software market has been characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product lifecycles. The development of new technologically advanced software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Our future success will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce timely new products and product features in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. The introduction of enhanced or new products requires us to manage the transition from, or integration with, older products in order to minimize disruption in sales of existing products and to manage the overall process in a cost-effective manner. If we do not successfully anticipate changing technological and market trends or changing customer requirements, and we fail to enhance or develop products timely, effectively and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to retain or increase market share may be harmed, and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If our existing or prospective customers prefer an application software architecture other than the standards-based technology and platforms upon which we build or support our products, or if we fail to develop our new product enhancements or products to be compatible with the application software architecture preferred by existing and prospective customers, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our software license fee revenue could be materially reduced. Many of our customers operate their information technology infrastructure on standards-based application software platforms such as J2EE and .NET. A significant portion of our product development is devoted to enhancing our products that deploy these and other standards-based application software platforms. If our products are not compatible with future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, we will be required to spend material development resources to develop products or product enhancements that are deployable on these platforms. If we are unsuccessful in developing these products or product enhancements, we may lose existing customers or be unable to attract prospective customers. In addition, our customers may choose competing products other than our offerings based upon their preference for new or different standards-based application software than the software or platforms on which our products operate or are supported. Any of these adverse developments could injure our competitive position and could cause our software license fee revenue to be materially adversely affected. 20 Our software products are built upon and depend upon operating platforms and software developed and supplied by third parties. As a result, changes in the availability, features and price of, or support for, any of these third-party platforms or software, including as a result of the platforms or software being acquired by a competitor, could materially increase our costs, divert resources and materially adversely affect our competitive position and software license fee revenue. Our software products are built upon and depend upon operating platforms and software developed by third-party providers. We license from several software providers technologies that are incorporated into our products. Our software may also be integrated with third-party vendor products for the purpose of providing or enhancing necessary functionality. If any of these operating platforms or software products ceases to be supported by its third-party provider, or if we lose any technology license for software that is incorporated into our products, including as a result of the platforms or software being acquired by a competitor, we may need to devote increased management and financial resources to migrate our software products to an alternative operating platform, identify and license equivalent technology or integrate our software products with an alternative third-party vendor product. In addition, if a provider enhances its product in a manner that prevents us from timely adapting our products to the enhancement, we may lose our competitive advantage, and our existing customers may migrate to a competitor’s product. Third-party providers may also not remain in business, cooperate with us to support our software products or make their product available to us on commercially reasonable terms or provide an effective substitute product to us and our customers. Any of these adverse developments could materially increase our costs and materially adversely affect our competitive position and software license fee revenue. If we lose access to, or fail to obtain, third-party software development tools on which our product development efforts depend, we may be unable to develop additional applications and functionality, and our ability to maintain our existing applications may be diminished, which may cause us to incur materially increased costs, reduced margins or lower revenue. We license software development tools from third parties and use those tools in the development of our products. Consequently, we depend upon third parties’ abilities to deliver quality products, correct errors, support their current products, develop new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If any of these third-party development tools become unavailable, if we are unable to maintain or renegotiate our licenses with third parties to use the required development tools, or if third-party developers fail to adequately support or enhance the tools, we may be forced to establish relationships with alternative third-party providers and to rewrite our products using different development tools. We may be unable to obtain other development tools with comparable functionality from other third parties on reasonable terms or in a timely fashion. In addition, we may not be able to complete the development of our products using different development tools, or we may encounter substantial delays in doing so. If we do not adequately replace these software development tools in a timely manner, we may incur additional costs, which may materially reduce our margins or revenue. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected defects or similar problems, and if we fail to develop an enhancement to resolve any defect or other software problem, we could be subject to product liability, performance or warranty claims and incur material costs, which could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of customer confidence and adversely impact our sales, revenue and operating results. Our software applications are complex and, as a result, defects or other software problems may be found during development, product testing, implementation or deployment. In the past, we have encountered defects in our products as they are introduced or enhanced. If our software contains defects or other software problems: • we may not be paid; • a customer may bring a warranty claim against us; 21 • a customer may bring a claim for their losses caused by our product failure; • we may face a delay or loss in the market acceptance of our products; • we may incur unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy the problem; • our reputation and competitive position may be damaged; and • significant customer relations problems may result. Our customers use our software together with software and hardware applications and products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to determine the cause of the problem, and our software, even when not the ultimate cause of the problem, may be misidentified as the source of the problem. The existence of defects or other software problems, even when our software is not the source of the problem, might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts for a lengthy time period, require extensive consulting resources, harm our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. If our products fail to perform properly, we may face liability claims notwithstanding that our standard customer agreements contain limitations of liability provisions. A material claim or lawsuit against us could result in significant legal expense, harm our reputation, damage our customer relations, divert management’s attention from our business and expose us to the payment of material damages or settlement amounts. In addition, interruption in the functionality of our products or other defects could cause us to lose new sales and materially adversely affect our license and maintenance services revenues and our operating results. A breach in the security of our software could harm our reputation and subject us to material claims, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Fundamental to the use of enterprise application software, including our software, is the ability to securely process, collect, analyze, store and transmit information. Third parties may attempt to breach the security of our solutions, third party applications that our products interface with, as well as customer databases and actual data. In addition, cyber-attacks and similar acts could lead to interruptions and delays in customer processing or a loss or breach of a customer’s data. We may be responsible, and liable, to our customers for certain breaches in the security of our software products. Any security breaches for which we are, or are perceived to be, responsible, in whole or in part, could subject us to claims, which could harm our reputation and result in significant litigation costs and damage awards or settlement amounts. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. We might be required to expend significant financial and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach. If we are not able to retain existing employees or hire qualified new employees, our business could suffer, and we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy and future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, professional service, sales, development, marketing, accounting, administrative and infrastructure-related personnel. The market for these highly skilled employees is generally competitive in the geographies in which we operate. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain qualified employees or recruit qualified personnel in a timely fashion, or if we are required to incur unexpected increases in compensation costs to retain key employees or meet our hiring goals. If we are not able to retain and attract the personnel we require, it could be more difficult for us to sell and develop our products and services and execute our business strategy, which could lead to a material shortfall in our anticipated results. Furthermore, if we fail to manage these costs effectively, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 22 The loss of key members of our senior management team could disrupt the management of our business and materially impair the success of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team. We rely on our executive officers and other key managers for the successful performance of our business. Although we have employment arrangements with several members of our senior management team, none of these arrangements prevents any of our employees from leaving us. The unanticipated loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key managers, or difficulties transitioning responsibilities following the departure of a key member of senior management, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our software license fee revenue could be materially adversely affected. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in significant degree on our intellectual property, particularly our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our rights in our software and other intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, design around or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Our competitors may independently develop software that is substantially equivalent or superior to our software. Furthermore, existing copyright law affords only limited protection for our software and may not protect such software in the event competitors independently develop products similar to ours. We take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our proprietary source code. Despite these measures, unauthorized disclosure of some of or all of our source code could occur. Such unauthorized disclosure could potentially cause our source code to lose intellectual property protection and make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying their functionality, structure or operation. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, we may not be able to protect our proprietary software against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and our software license fee revenue. Any litigation to protect our proprietary rights could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and could be unsuccessful, which could result in the loss of material intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Potential future claims that we infringe upon third parties’ intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming to defend or settle or result in the loss of significant products, any of which could materially adversely impact our revenue and operating results. Third parties could claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims, whether or not they have merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert our management’s attention and resources from day-to-day operations or cause significant delays in our delivery or implementation of our products. We could also be required to cease to develop, use or market infringing or allegedly infringing products, to develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to use infringing or allegedly infringing technology. We may not be able to develop alternative software or to obtain such licenses or, if a license is obtainable, we cannot be certain that the terms of such license would be commercially acceptable. If a claim of infringement were threatened or brought against us, and if we were unable to license the infringing or allegedly infringing product or develop or license substitute software, or were required to license such software at a high royalty, our revenue and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 23 In addition, we agree, from time to time, to indemnify our customers against certain claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending our customers against such claims. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and could result in materially increased expenses, reduced revenues and profitability and impaired customer relationships. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure, enterprise applications and internal and external technology and infrastructure systems for our development, sales, marketing, support and operational activities. A disruption or failure of any or all of these systems could result from catastrophic events, whether climate related or otherwise, including major telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, fires, earthquakes, storms or other severe weather conditions. A disruption or failure of any or all of these systems could cause system interruptions to our operations, including product development, sales-cycle or product implementation delays, as well as loss of data or other disruptions to our relationships with current or potential customers. The disaster recovery plans and backup systems that we have in place may not be effective in addressing a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology and infrastructure systems. As a result of any of these events, we may not be able to conduct normal business operations and may be required to incur significant expenses in order to resume normal business operations. As a result, our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our revenues are partially dependent upon federal government contractors and their need for compliance with Federal Government contract accounting and reporting standards, as well as data privacy and security requirements. Our failure to anticipate or adapt timely to changes in those standards could cause us to lose government contractor customers and materially adversely affect our revenue generated from these customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from federal government contractors. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, over half of our software license fee revenue was generated from federal government contractor customers. In addition our acquisition of INPUT increases the importance of government contractor customers to our business. Our government contractor customers utilize our Deltek Costpoint, Deltek GCS Premier or our enterprise project management applications to manage their contracts and projects with the Federal Government in a manner that accounts for expenditures in accordance with the Federal Government contracting accounting standards. These customers also have a requirement to maintain stringent data privacy and security safeguards. In addition, our government contractor customers utilize our Deltek GovWin and Deltek INPUT solutions to obtain critical information about potential government contractor opportunities. As an example, a key function of our Costpoint application is to enable government contractors to enter, review and organize accounting data in a manner that is compliant with applicable laws and regulations and to easily demonstrate compliance with those laws and regulations. If the Federal Government alters these compliance standards, or if there was any significant problem with the functionality of our software from a compliance or data security perspective, we may be required to modify or enhance our software products to satisfy any new or altered compliance standards. Our inability to effectively and efficiently modify our applications to resolve any compliance issue could result in the loss of government contract customers and materially adversely impact our revenue from these customers. Significant reductions in the Federal Government’s budget or changes in the spending priorities for that budget could materially reduce government contractors’ demand for our products and services. The Federal Government’s budget is subject to annual renewal and may be increased or decreased, whether on an overall basis or on a basis that could disproportionately injure our customers. Continued delays in government spending or budget approvals, or reductions or freezes in spending, could significantly impact our government contract customers business. Any significant downsizing, consolidation or insolvency of our Federal 24 Government contractor customers resulting from changes in procurement policies, budget reductions, loss of government contracts, delays in contract awards or other similar procurement obstacles could materially adversely impact our customers’ demand for our software products and related services and maintenance. Changes in budgetary priorities of the federal government could affect our government contracting customers and could therefore affect our software revenues could therefore be materially adversely affected. Because we derive a substantial majority of our revenue from customers who contract with the federal government, we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to be affected by our customers’ successful participation in federal government contract programs. Changes in federal government budgetary priorities could therefore affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that our customers support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts. Any such actions could affect our government contracting customers, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Among the factors that could seriously affect our federal government contracting customers are: • changes in budgetary priorities could limit or delay federal government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, which may reduce demand for our software solutions and services from customers supporting those departments or agencies; • the funding of some or all civilian agencies through continuing resolutions instead of budget appropriations could cause those agencies to modify their budgets, which could cause our customers supporting those agencies to reduce or defer purchase of our software solutions and services; • curtailment of the federal government’s use of information technology or professional services could impact our customers who provide information technology or professional services to the federal government; and • the federal government’s decision to terminate existing contracts for convenience, or to not renew expiring contracts, could reduce demand for our software solutions and services from our customers whose contracts have been terminated or have not been renewed. Impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets may adversely impact our results of operations. We have acquired several businesses which, in aggregate, have resulted in goodwill valued at approximately $150.9 million and other purchased intangible assets valued at approximately $69.1 million as of December 31, 2010. This represents a significant portion of the assets recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed periodically for impairment. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives but are also reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. We performed tests for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets as of December 31, 2010 and recognized an impairment loss of $1.5 million in connection with tradenames acquired from a prior acquisition whose carrying amount exceeded its fair value. There can be no assurances that additional charges to operations will not occur in the event of a future impairment. In addition, the decrease in the price of our stock that has occurred from time to time and may occur in the future may also affect whether we experience an impairment in future periods. If an impairment is deemed to exist in the future, we would be required to write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their then current estimated fair values. If a write down were to occur, it could materially adversely impact our results of operations and our stock price. 25 If we were to identify material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future, these material weaknesses may impede our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements, result in inaccurate financial reporting or restatements of our financial statements, subject our stock to delisting and materially harm our business reputation and stock price. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly periodic reports containing our financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission within prescribed time periods. As part of The NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements, we are also required to provide our periodic reports, or make them available, to our stockholders within prescribed time periods. If we were to identify material weaknesses in our internal control in the future, including with respect to internal controls relating to companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future, the required audit or review of our financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm may be delayed. In addition, we may not be able to produce reliable financial statements, file our financial statements as part of a periodic report in a timely manner with the Securities and Exchange Commission or comply with The NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements. If we are required to restate our financial statements in the future, any specific adjustment may cause our operating results and financial condition, as restated, on an overall basis to be materially impacted. If these events were to occur, our common stock listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market could be suspended or terminated and, absent a waiver, we also would be in default under our credit agreement and our lenders could accelerate any obligation we have to them. We, or members of our management, could also be subject to investigation and sanction by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory authorities and to stockholder lawsuits. In addition, our stock price could decline, we could face significant unanticipated costs, management’s attention could be diverted and our business reputation could be materially harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and could continue to remain volatile for a variety of reasons, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. The stock markets generally have experienced extreme and unpredictable volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are traded publicly. Broad market fluctuations and general economic and financial conditions may materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Significant price fluctuations in our common stock also could result from a variety of other factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition; • our competitors’ announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions of the project-focused software industry; • securities analysts’ commentary about us or our industry; • the limited trading volume of our common stock; and • any other factor described in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. In addition, if the market value of our common stock falls below the book value of our assets, we could be forced to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other assets. If this were to occur, our operating results would be adversely affected and the price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. 26 Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. New Mountain Partners II, L.P., New Mountain Affiliated Investors II, L.P., and Allegheny New Mountain Partners, L.P. (collectively, the “New Mountain Funds”), our controlling stockholders, own approximately 60% of outstanding common stock. If the New Mountain Funds were to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if the market perceives that our stockholders may sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The New Mountain Funds have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register the sale of their shares under the federal securities laws. If this right is exercised, holders of other shares and, in certain circumstances, stock options may sell their shares alongside the New Mountain Funds, which could cause the prevailing market price of our common stock to decline. The majority of our common stock (and all shares of common stock underlying options outstanding under our 2005 Stock Option Plan and certain shares of common stock underlying options and restricted stock outstanding under our 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”) are, directly or indirectly, subject to a registration rights agreement. We have also filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering shares subject to options and restricted stock outstanding under our 2005 Stock Option Plan and 2007 Plan and shares reserved for issuance under our 2007 Plan and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. A decline in the trading price of our common stock due to the occurrence of any future sales might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities and may cause stockholders to lose part or all of their investment in our shares of common stock. Our largest stockholders and their affiliates have substantial control over us and this could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including any change of control. Our largest stockholders, the New Mountain Funds, own approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock and 100% of our Class A common stock. As a result of their significant ownership percentage, and as long as they own a majority of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and at least one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock based on the rights conferred by an investor rights agreement, the New Mountain Funds are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The New Mountain Funds will retain the right to elect a majority of our directors so long as they own our Class A common stock and at least one-third of our outstanding common stock. The New Mountain Funds are also entitled to collect a transaction fee, unless waived by them, on a transaction by transaction basis, equal to 2% of the transaction value of each significant transaction exceeding $25 million in value directly or indirectly involving us or any of our controlled affiliates, including acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or other similar transactions, debt, equity or other financing transactions, public or private offerings of our securities and joint ventures, partnerships and minority investments. Although in 2009 the New Mountain Funds waived their right to collect a transaction fee in connection with our stock rights offering and the amendment of our Credit Agreement, their right to collect transaction fees otherwise remains in effect and continues until the New Mountain Funds cease to beneficially own at least 15% of our outstanding common stock or a change of control occurs. In 2010, New Mountain Capital, L.L.C. received transaction fees of $1.6 million in connection with our acquisition of Maconomy and $1.2 million in connection with our acquisition of INPUT. The New Mountain Funds may have interests that differ from other stockholders’ interests, and they may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and that may be adverse to their interests. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 27 If we issue additional shares of our common stock, stockholders could experience dilution. Our authorized capital stock consists of 200,000,000 shares of common stock, of which there were 69,381,450 shares outstanding as of March 9, 2011. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock could result in dilution of other stockholders’ ownership interest in us. In addition, if we issue additional shares of our common stock at a price that is less than the fair value of our common stock, other stockholders could, depending on their participation in that issuance, also experience immediate dilution of the value of their shares relative to what their value would have been had our common stock been issued at fair value. This dilution could be substantial. Our stockholders do not have the same protections available to other stockholders of NASDAQ-listed companies because we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of The NASDAQ Global Select Market’s standards and, as a result, qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from several corporate governance requirements. Our controlling stockholders, the New Mountain Funds, control a majority of our outstanding common stock and have the ability to elect a majority of our board of directors. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules governing companies with stock quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under these rules, a company as to which an individual, a group or another company holds more than 50% of the voting power is considered a “controlled company” and is exempt from several corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: • a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; • compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and • director nominees be selected or recommended for election by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. We have availed ourselves of these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are subject to all of The NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance requirements as long as the New Mountain Funds own a majority of our outstanding common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our shareholders’ agreement could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us (as a public company with common stock listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market) from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • provide the New Mountain Funds, through their stock ownership, with the ability to elect a majority of our directors if they beneficially own one-third or more of our common stock; • do not provide for cumulative voting; 28 • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office (subject to the rights of the Class A stockholders); • limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; • permit stockholder action by written consent if the New Mountain Funds and its affiliates own one-third or more of our common stock; • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation; and • require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. In addition, certain provisions of our shareholders’ agreement require that certain covered persons (as defined in the shareholders’ agreement) vote their shares of our common stock in favor of certain transactions in which the New Mountain Funds propose to sell all or any portion of their shares of our common stock, or in which we propose to sell or otherwise transfer for value all or substantially all of the stock, assets or business of the company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 