ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect the Company’s ability to meet liquidity needs and impact capital position. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. During the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. Economic conditions have continued to deteriorate in 2009. The Company needs liquidity to pay its operating expenses, interest on its debt and dividends on its capital stock, and to replace certain maturing liabilities. The principal sources of the Company’s liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, cash flow from its investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, bank loans, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities and capital securities. In the event current resources do not satisfy the Company’s needs, the Company may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the availability of credit generally and specifically to the financial services industry, the volume of trading activities, the Company’s credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of the Company’s long- or short-term financial prospects if it incurs large investment losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, the Company’s access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against the Company. The Company’s internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, the Company may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit the Company’s access to capital required to operate its business, most significantly its insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit the Company’s ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow its business. As such, the Company may be forced to issue shorter-term securities than it prefers, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease the Company’s profitability and significantly reduce the Company’s financial flexibility. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 14 Table of Contents Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations, and these conditions may not improve in the near future. The Company’s results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy in both the U.S. and elsewhere. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence, and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility, which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the Sub-prime segment of the mortgage-backed securities (MBS) market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of MBSs (including those backed by commercial mortgages), asset-backed securities (ABSs) and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on the Company, in part because the Company has a large investment portfolio and also is dependent upon customer behavior. The Company’s revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, and the Company’s profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, the Company could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, the Company is exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. The Company is a significant writer of variable annuity products. The account values of these products will be affected by the downturn in capital markets. Any decrease in account values will decrease the fees generated by the Company’s variable annuity products. See Part II, Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Equity Market Risk for a complete discussion of risk factors associated with guaranteed contracts. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the Company’s business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, increased defaults on mortgage and consumer loans, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for the Company’s financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. The Company’s policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis also has raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 that could further impact the Company’s business. The Company cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Internal Revenue Code may be changed to address the fiscal challenges currently faced by the federal government. These changes could include changes to the taxation of life insurance, annuities, mutual funds, retirement savings plans, and other investment alternatives offered by the Company. Such changes could have an adverse impact on the desirability of the products offered by the Company. The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds, and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. The Company also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. There can be no assurance that any such realized losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the Company’s net investment income can vary from period to period. The Company is exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in its portfolio and other factors outside the Company’s control. The Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of the Company’s investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of the Company’s life insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that the Company’s policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring the Company to sell assets, which likely would have declined in value due to the increase in interest rates. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of the Company’s life insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject the Company to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches. The Company’s investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond the Company’s control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, offset by the Company’s ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. The Company’s mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk primarily are focused toward maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of the estimated liability cash flow profile. However, the Company’s estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate, and the Company might need to sell assets, which likely would have declined in value due to the increase in interest rates, in order to cover the liability. Although the Company takes measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, the Company may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of the Company’s assets relative to its liabilities. The Company’s exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss position of the investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based derivatives where the Company assumes credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of the Company’s securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities have widened, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monolines, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, and a serious dislocation in the interbank market. If significant, continued volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions. The Company’s primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of the Company’s insurance businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In addition, certain of the Company’s annuity products offer guaranteed benefits, which increase the Company’s potential benefit exposure and statutory reserve and capital requirements should equity markets decline, which could deplete capital. Increased reserve and capital requirements could lead to rating agency downgrades. 16 Table of Contents The Company invests a portion of its invested assets in investment funds, many of which make private equity investments. The amount and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of income that the Company records from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity and credit market volatility may reduce investment income for these types of investments. The Company’s investments are reflected within the financial statements utilizing different accounting bases. Accordingly, the Company may not have recognized differences, which may be significant, between cost and fair value in the Company’s financial statements. The Company’s principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage loans, policy loans, real estate, and real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships. The carrying value of such investments is as follows: • Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income or loss, net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes. • Trading securities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net investment income. • Short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at fair value. • Mortgage loans held for investment are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans that are held for sale are carried at fair value as elected under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, Including an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 115. • Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. • Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which the Company has more than a minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the joint venture’s or partnership’s operations, but where the Company does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary beneficiary, are carried using the equity method of accounting. Investments not carried at fair value in the Company’s financial statements (principally mortgage loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships) may have fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected in the Company’s financial statements. Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class. The Company’s valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities and certain other investments are reported at fair value on the balance sheet. The Company has categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the category level is based on the lowest priority level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety. 17 Table of Contents The Company categorizes financial assets recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: • Level 1 – Unadjusted quoted prices accessible in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. The types of assets utilizing Level 1 valuations include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, equity securities listed in active markets, investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices, and listed derivatives. • Level 2 – Unadjusted quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or inputs (other than quoted prices) that are observable or that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means. The types of assets utilizing Level 2 valuations generally include U.S. Government agency securities, municipal bonds, structured notes and certain MBSs and ABSs, certain corporate debt, certain private placement investments, and certain derivatives, including certain cross-currency interest rate swaps and credit default swaps. • Level 3 – Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Inputs reflect management’s best estimate about the assumptions market participants would use at the measurement date in pricing the asset. Consideration is given to the risk inherent in both the method of valuation and the valuation inputs. Generally, the types of assets utilizing Level 3 valuations are certain MBSs and ABSs, certain corporate debt, certain private placement investments, certain mutual fund holdings, and certain derivatives. Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent broker quotes used to assist in developing the fair value measurement can vary widely even for the same security. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: 1) valuation methodologies; 2) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and 3) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, issuer credit worthiness, industry sector of the issuer, issuer and security specific liquidity, performance of the underlying collateral and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly changing interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads, inactivity or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of the Company’s securities, for example Alt-A and Sub-prime MBSs or certain types of ABSs, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus result in more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods, which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be different from the value at which the investments ultimately may be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within the Company’s financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Some of the Company’s investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations. The Company holds certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans; policy loans; equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures; and other limited partnership interests. Even some of the Company’s very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions. If the Company requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or is required to post or return collateral in connection with the investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, the Company may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of the Company’s relatively illiquid types of investments and, at times, the high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest observed price for the asset. If the Company was forced to sell certain assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to sell them for the prices at which they are recorded, and the Company may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. 18 Table of Contents The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on the Company’s investments and the valuation allowance on the deferred income tax asset are judgmental and could materially impact the Company’s results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon the Company’s periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. For debt securities not subject to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue (EITF) No. 99-20, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, as amended by FASB Staff Position (FSP) EITF 99-20-1 (EITF 99-20), an other-than-temporary impairment charge is taken when the Company does not have the ability and intent to hold the security until the forecasted recovery or based on the probability that the Company may not be able to receive all contractual payments when due. Debt securities accounted for under EITF 99-20 may experience other-than-temporary impairment in future periods in the event an adverse change in cash flows is anticipated or probable. Furthermore, equity securities may experience other-than-temporary impairment in the future based on the prospects for recovery in value in a reasonable period. Many criteria are considered during this process including, but not limited to, the current fair value as compared to cost or amortized cost, as appropriate, of the security; the amount and length of time a security’s fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; specific known and probable credit issues and financial prospects related to the issuer and/or collateral; management’s intent and ability to hold or dispose of the security; and current economic conditions. Other-than-temporary impairment losses result in a reduction to the cost basis of the underlying investment. See Note 14 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a discussion of management’s considerations in assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets. Deterioration in the public debt and equity markets could lead to additional investment losses. The prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in a number of large financial institutions, have resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses in the Company’s investment portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred substantial realized and unrealized investment losses, as described in Part II, Item 7 – MD&A. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, through the date of this report, conditions in the public debt and equity markets have continued to deteriorate, and pricing levels have continued to decline. As a result, depending on market conditions, the Company could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, equity, business, and insurer financial strength and debt ratings. A downgrade or potential downgrade in the Company’s financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) publish as indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in the Company’s products, the Company’s ability to market its products and its competitive position. Downgrades in the Company’s financial strength ratings could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting the Company’s relationships with its sales force and independent sales intermediaries; increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring the Company to reduce prices for many of its products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting the Company’s ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the financial strength ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for NFS and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in the Company’s overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting the Company’s access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring the Company to post collateral. On September 18, September 29, October 2, and October 10, 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, respectively, each revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable, citing, among other things, the significant deterioration and volatility in the credit and equity markets, economic and political uncertainty, and the expected impact of realized and unrealized investment losses on life insurers’ capital levels and profitability. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including the Company’s competitors in the insurance industry, the Company believes it is possible that the NRSROs will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. The Company cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions the Company may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company’s ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any NRSRO. If the Company’s business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) varies significantly, the Company may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. Those costs that vary with and primarily are related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin primarily is dependent on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management’s estimates of gross profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known or when estimates are reevaluated and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to operations. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. Deviations from assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity and interest rates used in calculating reserve amounts could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The process of calculating reserve amounts for a life insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with a company), mortality, morbidity and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. As such, significant deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders rather than the Company. See Part I, Item 1 – Business – Regulation – Regulation at State Level for a general description of the regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders. Changes in regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may adversely impact pricing, reserve adequacy or exposure to litigation and could increase the costs of regulatory compliance by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Any proposed or future state legislation or regulations may negatively impact the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Certain changes in federal laws and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal legislation, administrative policies and court decisions may significantly and adversely affect certain areas of the Company’s business. In addition to product tax issues, these areas include pension and employee welfare benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation and taxation generally. For example, the following events could adversely affect the Company’s business: • changes in laws such as ERISA, as amended, that apply to group annuities (see Part I, Item 1 – Business – Regulation – ERISA Considerations for a complete discussion of ERISA); • changes in tax laws that would reduce or eliminate the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products; repeal of the federal estate tax; • changes in the availability of, or rules concerning the establishment and operation of, Section 401, 403(b) and 457 plans or individual retirement accounts; • changes in tax laws, including changes that could reduce or eliminate many of the tax advantages of purchasing and owning annuity and life insurance products (see Difficult conditions in the economy generally may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations, and these conditions may not improve in the near future, and Part I, Item 1 – Business – Regulation – Tax Legislation for a description of risk factors related to potential tax legislation and “Tax Matters” in Note 19 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for information regarding the Company’s separate account dividends received deduction); or • changes in tax regulations, such as the proposed regulations that would alter the way tax sheltered annuities described in Section 403(b) of the IRC may be offered and sold. Litigation or regulatory actions in connection with late trading, market timing, compensation and bidding arrangements, unsuitable sales and replacements, the use of finite reinsurance and/or other sales practices could have a material adverse impact on the Company. See Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings for a description of litigation and regulatory actions. These and future litigation matters may negatively affect the Company by resulting in the payment of substantial awards or settlements, increasing legal and compliance costs, requiring the Company to change certain aspects of its business operations, diverting management attention from other business issues or harming the Company’s reputation with customers. Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the FASB, the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company is subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which periodically are revised and/or expanded. As such, the Company periodically is required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements could change the Company’s current application of GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military and other actions may result in decreases in the Company’s consolidated net (loss) income, revenue and assets under management and may adversely impact the Company’s consolidated investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility and declines in the U.S., European and other securities markets, loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Actual terrorist attacks could cause a decrease in the Company’s consolidated net income and/or revenue as a result of decreased economic activity and/or payment of claims. In addition, some of the assets in the Company’s investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the securities markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. 21 Table of Contents The Company cannot predict whether or the extent to which industry sectors in which the Company maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Although the Company does not believe that the continued threat of terrorist attacks will have any material impact on the Company’s financial strength or performance, the Company can offer no assurances that this threat, future terrorist-like events in the U.S. and abroad, or military actions by the U.S. will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry, which can significantly impact operating results. See Part I, Item 1 – Business – Competition for a description of competitive factors affecting the Company. The Company’s revenues and profitability could be impacted negatively due to competition. Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and reputation. Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in the Company’s facilities, networks or databases could result in loss or theft of data and information or systems interruptions that may expose the Company to liability and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of the Company’s data could harm the Company’s reputation and business. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to implement security measures to prevent such security breaches. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 