D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The recent global economic and financial crisis has had and will continue to have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending, all of which has had and will continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our tools and services depends in large part upon the level of information technology, or IT, capital spending and investment in IT projects by our customers. The current economic conditions have reduced the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to IT projects, and may reduce their ability to pay for our tools and services after purchase, whether as a result of possible customer insolvencies or otherwise. This has resulted in longer sales cycles and increased pressure on pricing. Similarly, our suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed components on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand, fulfill our contractual obligations or affect our gross margins. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the global economic crisis or the timing or strength of any subsequent economic recovery. Accordingly, we cannot know how the economic conditions will affect our business. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues or keep our revenues at the same level as in 2008. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted. 4 The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our customers could reduce our revenues and profitability. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our current and historical net revenues. For example, in 2008, sales to The Capita Group Plc accounted for 10% of our revenues. In 2007, sales to SDC Udvikling A/S and EDS accounted for 12% and 11% of our revenues, respectively. In 2006, sales to EDS accounted for 11% of our revenues. The loss of any of our major customers or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products and solutions as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. Our acquisition of existing businesses and our failure to successfully integrate these businesses could disrupt our business, dilute your holdings in us, and harm our financial condition and operating results. In recent years, we acquired and increased our investment in several businesses. We intend to make future strategic acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, depending on market conditions and available financing. Such acquisitions could disrupt our business. In addition, your holdings in our company would be diluted if we issue equity securities in connection with any acquisition, as we did in the acquisitions of BridgeQuest Inc. and CodeStream Software Ltd.. Acquisitions may result in losses as a result of our failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our existing business. For example, in 2007, an impairment loss of $7 million related to goodwill in Mainsoft Corporation, or Mainsoft, was identified and charged to loss from discontinued operation. In 2008, we sold our entire holdings in Mainsoft, in which we held a 58% controlling interest. Mainsoft contributed a loss of approximately $8.5 million, charged to loss from discontinued operation in 2008. This decision to sell Mainsoft followed a strategic shift in Mainsoft’s product development and marketing strategy outside of BluePhoenix’s core business focus. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies, or products; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and • impairment of intangible assets related to acquisitions. 5 Further, products that we acquire from third parties often require significant expenditures of time and resources to upgrade and integrate with our existing product suite. We may not be able to successfully integrate any business, technologies, or personnel that we have acquired or that we might acquire in the future, and this could harm our financial condition and operating results. If we fail to continue our growth and manage our growth effectively, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. Our expansion during recent years placed a strain on our senior management team and other resources, such as our management information systems and operating, administrative, financial, and accounting systems. We have undergone rapid growth in the number of our employees, the size and locations of our physical facilities, and the scope of our operations, due, in part, to several acquisitions we have made. Any failure to manage our growth effectively could disrupt our business and harm operating results. Many of our customers are financial institutions and a negative impact of the recent global economic and financial crisis on their business may cause a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 60% of our revenues in 2008 were derived from financial institutions. The recent global economic and financial market crisis had an adverse affect on various financial institutions and the banking sector. Lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to effectively control our costs while maintaining our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations, and in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships while protecting profitability and cash flow. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to such downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our IT solutions. If we have too aggressively reduced our costs, we may not have sufficient resources to capture new IT projects and meet customer demand. If, for example, during periods of escalating demand for our products, we were unable to add engineering and technical staff capacity quickly enough to meet the needs of our customers, they may turn to our competitors making it more difficult for us to retain their business. Similarly, if we are unable for any other reason to meet delivery schedules, particularly during a period of escalating demand, our relationships with our customers could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity to capitalize on periods of economic upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The IT modernization business is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our modernization tools and services. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the tools and services we offer to keep up with technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our tools and services, or developing or acquiring new modernization tools and services that adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the tools and services we offer will be accepted by customers. If our tools and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment, customer requirements, and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current tools or develop new tools. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time, and other resources to meet the demand. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. We may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which makes it difficult to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations are the result of risks related to the introduction of new products and any of the following events: • global economic trends, like the recent global economic crisis; • adverse economic conditions in various geographic areas where our customers and potential customers operate; • acquisitions and dispositions of companies; • timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; • timing of product releases; • timing of contracts; • increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; and • currency fluctuations and financial expenses related to our financial instruments. In addition, unexpected events that do not occur on a regular basis and that are difficult to predict may cause fluctuations in our operating results. In 2008, we had a loss from continuing operation of $20.1 million. This loss is attributed to a number of factors including an impairment test performed by us, based on a third party valuation study, which resulted in an impairment loss of $13.3 million related to goodwill of our overall IT modernization reporting unit, and was charged to operations. Additional losses are attributed to costs incurred with regard to our cost saving plan, changes in foreign currencies that affected our financial expenses and to a decrease in our gross margin. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 7 A delay in collecting our fees could result in cash flow shortages, which in turn may significantly impact our financial results. Typical modernization projects which deploy our solutions are long-term projects. Therefore, payment for these projects or a substantial portion of our fees may be delayed until the successful completion of specified milestones. In addition, the payment of our fees is dependent upon customer acceptance of the completed work and our ability to collect the fees. Further, although the timing of receipt of our fees varies, we incur the majority of our expenses on a current basis. As a result, a delay in the collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages. If we are unable to invest in new products and markets or to manage the effects of changes in our offering portfolio, our results will be adversely affected. We specialize in the development and implementation of sophisticated software modernization and porting tools and products. We leverage our know-how, experience, and generic technologies to develop and introduce new software tools that enable the modernization of legacy systems. The need for our modernization solutions changes over time, and recent regulations or newly introduced technologies may create new needs for modernization solutions. As part of our growth strategy, as new needs evolve, we typically conduct a market analysis to qualify and quantify the market opportunity. If the results justify the investment required for the development of new products or tools, then we begin the development process of the new product. In order to maintain our position in the market, and our ability to address the constantly changing needs of the marketplace, we continually invest in the development of new products. In order to properly introduce a new product to the marketplace or to introduce our current products into new markets, we continuously update our marketing materials, educate our sales force, and make changes to our operations. If these activities are not completed in a timely or satisfactory manner, or we limit our capital spending on these activities, our new product introduction may be delayed or harmed and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheet include, among other things, goodwill valued at approximately $52 million, capitalized research and development costs valued at approximately $17.6 million and intangible assets related to customers’ relations valued at approximately $3.0 million. The applicable accounting standards require that: • goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to an annual impairment test. We perform an annual impairment test, as well as periodic impairment tests if impairment indicators are present. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The carrying amount of these assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value (usually discounted cash flow) of the impaired asset; and 8 • acquired technology and development costs of software that is intended for sale that were incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility of the relevant product, be capitalized and tested for impairment on a regular basis, and written down when capitalized costs exceed its net realizable value. For example, in 2008 an impairment test was performed and a loss of $13.3 million related to goodwill of our overall IT modernization reporting unit was identified and charged to operations. Our ability to reconcile the gap between our market capitalization and our aggregate fair value depends on various factors, some of which are quantitative, such as an estimated control premium that an investor would be willing to pay for a controlling interest in us, and some of which are qualitative and involve management judgment, including stable relatively high backlog and growing pipe line. If our market capitalization stays below the value of our stockholders’ equity, or actual results of operations differ materially from our modeling estimates and related assumptions, or if any of our qualitative reconciliation factors changes in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. In 2007, an impairment loss of $7 million related to goodwill in Mainsoft, was identified and charged to loss from discontinued operation. In 2008, we sold our entire holdings in Mainsoft, in which we held a 58% controlling interest. Mainsoft contributed a loss of approximately $8.5 million, charged to loss from discontinued operation in 2008. This decision to sell Mainsoft followed a strategic shift in Mainsoft’s product development and marketing strategy outside of BluePhoenix’s core business focus. If our goodwill or capitalized research and development costs were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to our failure to achieve our goals, or if we fail to accurately predict the useful life of the capitalized research and development costs, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, thus adversely affecting our operating results. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel for our worldwide facilities at competitive prices, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. In order to achieve our objectives, we hire from time to time additional software, administrative, operational, sales, and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training, and successfully integrating qualified personnel can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. As part of our growth strategy, we developed offshore centers in Cyprus, Romania and St. Petersburg (Russia). We hired professional consultants for these development centers, leveraging the lower employer costs that existed in these countries. In recent years, professional work in these countries became more expensive and professional fees may continue to increase in the future. The establishment of additional offshore facilities may result in significant capital expenses, which may affect our cash position. We cannot assure you that our offshore facilities will continue to be cost effective. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified professional employees worldwide at competitive prices. 9 If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments based upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we may agree to a price before the design specifications are finalized, which could result in a fixed price that is too low, resulting in lower margins or losses to us. If our tools or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our modernization solutions, the project team conducts testing to detect the existence of failures, errors, and bugs. If our modernization solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our tools, we may incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem. The consequences of failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of damages claims. In the event that we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations from the results of the implementation of our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, these customers may suffer damages. When and if this occurs, customers may have the ability to cancel our contracts. Any cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages, since we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to claims as a result of not delivering our products on time or in a satisfactory manner. Such disputes or others may lead to material damages. We are exposed to significant claims for damage caused to our customers’ information systems. Some of the products, tools, and services we provide involve key aspects of our customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. If a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of modernization solutions or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our modernization solutions, we are exposed to the risk of a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We cannot guarantee that the limitations of liability under our product and service contracts, if any, would be sufficient to protect us against legal claims. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. 10 If third parties assert claims of infringement against us, we may suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. Software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us. In addition, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties. A breach of the nondisclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim if submitted may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience greater than expected competition that could have a negative effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive market. Competition in the modernization field is, to a large extent, based upon the functionality of the available automated tools and personnel expertise. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sale of their modernization tools and services, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to emerging opportunities and changes in technology or customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase such competitors’ ability to successfully market their tools and services. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. As we develop new tools and services, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. Our competitors include small vendors who may provide a single solution for a particular area of modernization, large system integrators such as IBM, HP, SUN, Accenture, Cap Gemini and EDS, some of whom we also partner with, software houses such as Micro Focus and Metaware, and Indian system integrators such as Tata, WIPRO, Infosys and Patni. We may be unable to differentiate our tools and services from those of our competitors or successfully develop and introduce new tools and services that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have or acquire more extensive development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our customers or prospective customers will not result in price reductions for our tools and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our employees and contractors have direct access to our technology. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place, in escrow, the source code of certain of our software. Pursuant to the escrow arrangements, the software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time to time, we also provide our software directly to customers. These factors may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. We are exposed to litigation that could result in considerable financial liabilities. In July 2003, a former Liraz shareholder filed an application with the Tel-Aviv-Jaffa District Court to approve a claim filed by him against us, as a class action. The claim relates to the acquisition of Liraz shares, which we completed in March 2003. The shareholder alleges that the share price we paid to Liraz’s shareholders in the tender offer and in a subsequent mandatory purchase was lower than the fair price of Liraz shares. The maximum amount of the claim is approximately NIS 35 million ($8.7 million) in the aggregate. Under Israeli law, the court’s approval is required for the plaintiff to represent all of the shareholders of Liraz who sold their shares to us pursuant to the tender offer and the mandatory acquisition. The plaintiff has applied for such approval in the lawsuit. If we are not successful in defending this claim, we could be exposed to considerable financial liabilities and, as a result, our financial condition could be materially adversely harmed. In January 2008, we entered into an agreement for the purchase of the entire outstanding share capital of TIS Consultants Ltd., or TIS, a company incorporated in Cyprus, that wholly owns a subsidiary incorporated in India. We are in a dispute with TIS regarding the earn-out calculation and therefore, we notified TIS’ selling shareholders that we are not going to pay them the down payment for the year 2008, due in February 2009. Following such notice, the selling shareholders notified us of their intent to submit a claim against us for such payment. Our maximum unrecognized liability in that regard might be up to $5 million. If we are not successful in defending our calculation in a potential claim, we could be exposed to considerable financial liabilities and, as a result, our financial condition could be harmed. 12 Our existing credit facilities contain a number of restrictions and obligations that limit our operating and financial flexibility, and there is no assurance that credit facilities will be available in the future. As of March27, 2009, we had an aggregate of $16 million of outstanding loans under our credit facilities. Our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to pledge our assets, dispose of assets, make loans or give guarantees, make certain acquisitions, and engage in mergers or consolidations. Our credit facilities also contain covenants regarding maintaining certain financial ratios. Our ability to continue to comply with these and other obligations depends in part on the future performance of our business. There can be no assurance that such obligations will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, any noncompliance with performance-related covenants and other undertakings of our credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our outstanding debt under our credit facilities and restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, there is no assurance that banks will continue to provide us with credit facilities in the future. Risks Relating to International Operations Marketing our tools and solutions in international markets may cause increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide sales, we need to establish additional marketing and sales operations, hire additional personnel, and recruit additional resellers internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results, and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Risks inherent in our worldwide business activities generally include: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products for foreign countries; • lack of acceptance of localized products; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • difficulties in operations of management; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of local legislation. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 13 Inflation, devaluation, and fluctuation of various currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities, and assets. We run our operations in various countries. As a result, we enter into transactions with customers and suppliers in local currencies. The reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements and the functional currency of our business is the U.S. dollar. The fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in countries where we operate can adversely affect the reflection of these activities in our consolidated financial statements. Fluctuations in the value of our non-dollar revenues, costs, and expenses measured in dollars could materially affect our results of operations. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. We enter, from time to time, into forward currency exchange contracts or other arrangements in order to hedge this foreign currency exposure. Such arrangements may not always be effective or sufficient to offset the fluctuations in currency exchange rates. For additional information relating to the exchange rates between different relevant currencies, see “Item 5.A. Operating Results–Our Reporting Currency”. Fluctuations in foreign currency values affect the prices of our products and services, which in turn may affect our business and results of operations. Most of our worldwide sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Danish Krones and euros while our reporting currency is the dollar. A decrease in the value of the dollar relative to these foreign currencies would make our products more expensive and increase our operating costs and, therefore, could adversely affect our results and harm our competitive position in the markets in which we compete. We are subject to multiple taxing jurisdictions. If we fail to estimate accurately the amount of income tax due in any of these jurisdictions, our net income might be affected. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to taxation by these jurisdictions at various tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We cannot assure you that the final tax outcome of these issues will not be different from management estimates, which are reflected in our income tax provisions. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such outcome occurs. 14 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since 2000, there have been ongoing hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which have adversely affected the peace process and at times have negatively influenced Israel’s economy as well as its relationship with several other countries. In 2006, Israel experienced a war with Hezbollah militants in Lebanon. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in 2007. In January 2009, Israel engaged in a military action against Hamas in Gaza to prevent continued rocket attacks against Israel. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. The current political situation between Israel and its neighbors may not improve. These political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, nonexempt male adult citizens of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty until the age of 40 or 45 depending on their function in the army, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. We cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Political relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. It may be difficult to serve process and enforce judgments against our directors and executive officers in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to: • effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors who are nonresidents of the United States; • enforce court judgments obtained in the United States including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors that are nonresidents of the United States, in the United States or Israel; and • bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. 15 Risks Relating to Our Traded Securities The market price of our ordinary shares may be extremely volatile and our investors may not be able to resell the shares at or above the price they paid, or at all. During the past few years, the worldwide stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect market price of our ordinary shares. The high and low market prices of our ordinary shares traded on the NASDAQ Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, during each of the last three years, are summarized in the table below: NASDAQ Global Market In $ TASE In NIS High Low High Low 2008 20.66 1.40 74.83 5.25 2007 21.49 5.94 85.51 25.69 2006 6.45 3.85 28.99 18.30 Between January and December 2008, the market price of our ordinary shares dropped from $20.66 to $1.40. As of March 27, 2009, the market price of our ordinary shares was $1.98. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will rise to similar levels as it was in the past. The market price of our ordinary shares may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly revenues and operating results; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • public announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction or market acceptance of new products or service offerings by us or by our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and • the loss of any of our key personnel. In addition, global and local economic, political and market conditions, and military conflicts and, in particular, those specifically related to the State of Israel, may affect the market price of our shares. 16 Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares trade on the NASDAQ Global Market and the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets will take place in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days, and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Future sales of our shares to be registered for resale in the public market could dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall. As of March 27, 2009, we had 20,835,758 ordinary shares outstanding (excluding 2,326,246 ordinary shares held by BluePhoenix). In addition, we reserved 531,015 ordinary shares for issuance under our option plan and restricted share units award plan. We also have the following commitments to issue our ordinary shares: • 485,714 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to institutional investors in connection with the $5 million and $3 million private placements, completed in March 2004 and March 2006, respectively; and • 800,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued by us to institutional investors in connection with the $35 million private placement completed in November 2007. We registered for resale the shares underlying the warrants issued to the institutional investors in March 2004, March 2006 and November 2007, pursuant to registration rights agreements entered into with such investors. For more information, see “Item 4.B - Business Overview – Investments and Acquisitions” and “Item 5.B - Liquidity and Capital Resources – Contractual Commitments and Guarantees.” The exercise of options by our employees and the exercise of warrants by investors would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If a large number of our ordinary shares are sold in a short period, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decrease. 17 Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2008, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with our position. We would be a PFIC if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year (including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) is passive income, or (ii) the value of our assets averaged quarterly over our the taxable year (including our pro rata share of the assets of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income is at least 50%. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences, including being taxed at ordinary income tax rates and being subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. For additional information regarding our PFIC status, see the discussion under “Item 10.E. Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” As a foreign private issuer whose shares will be listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain listing requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to The NASDAQ Global Market in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. We follow home country practice with regard to distribution of annual reports to shareholders, meetings of independent directors in which only independent directors participate, approval of share compensation plans and changes in such plans. 18 