ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Changes in general economic and market conditions and interest rates may significantly affect the value of the Company’s investment portfolio. The Company’s investment portfolio primarily consists of fixed-income securities and mortgage loans on real estate. The market values of these invested assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions and the interest rate environment. For example, if interest rates rise, the investments generally will decrease in value. If interest rates decline, the investments generally will increase in value with the possible exception of mortgage-backed securities (MBSs), which may decline due to higher prepayments on the mortgages underlying the securities. MBSs, including collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), are subject to prepayment risks that vary with interest rates, among other things. During periods of declining interest rates, MBSs generally prepay faster as the underlying mortgages are prepaid and/or refinanced by borrowers in order to take advantage of lower rates. MBSs that have an amortized cost greater than par (i.e., purchased at a premium) may incur a reduction in yield or a loss as a result of such prepayments. In addition, during such periods, the Company generally will be unable to reinvest the proceeds of any such prepayment at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the frequency of prepayments generally decreases. MBSs that have an amortized value less than par (i.e., purchased at a discount) may incur a decrease in yield or a loss as a result of slower prepayments. There can be no assurance that management will be able to successfully manage the negative impact of interest rate changes. Additionally, for business, regulatory or other reasons, the Company periodically may elect or be required to sell certain of its invested assets when their fair values are less than their original cost, resulting in realized capital losses. Changes in interest rates and in the financial markets may reduce the Company’s interest spread income, earnings and sales. The Company is exposed to various interest rate risks. Many of the products contain guarantees that require the Company to credit at least a minimum rate of interest to policyholders. In addition, for competitive reasons, the Company may at times continue to credit above-minimum interest rates to policyholders despite reductions in prevailing market interest rates. Current crediting rates for many of the Company’s individual annuity products are at or near the contractual minimum rates. Decreases in market interest rates would result in declines in the portfolio yield on investments backing the Company’s individual annuity products. A reduction in interest spread income, the difference between the interest rates that the Company credits policyholders and the yield the Company is able to earn on investments, may reduce earnings. If policyholders cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies to seek better investment yields in response to changing interest rates, the Company’s revenues are likely to decrease. If market interest rates decline, net investment income will decrease if higher-yielding fixed-income securities mature or are redeemed and the proceeds must be reinvested in lower-yielding securities. Volatility in interest rates and equity markets could reduce consumer demand for the Company’s products and result in lower sales. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s liquidity. Significant increases in prevailing interest rates may cause the Company’s policyholders to withdraw the cash value of their policies as they seek more attractive returns. If large numbers of policyholders or policyholders with large balances withdraw their policy values, the Company may be required to borrow funds or liquidate investments to raise the cash necessary to fund their withdrawals. Particularly in periods of volatile interest rates, liquidations can result in capital losses to the Company. Because volatile interest rates often make fixed-income investments like mortgages and privately placed bonds more difficult to sell, there is also a risk that the Company will find it difficult to raise the cash necessary to fund a very large amount of withdrawal activity. 16 Table of Contents A decline in the equity markets can cause the values of the Company’s separate account assets to decline, reduce revenues, increase claims, increase payment obligations under guaranteed contracts and result in the accelerated amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC). A significant source of revenues for the Company is derived from asset management fees, which are calculated as a percentage of separate account assets. Gains and losses in the equity markets will result in corresponding increases or decreases in separate account assets and asset management fee revenue. In addition, a decrease in separate account assets may decrease the Company’s expectations of future profit margins due to a decrease in asset fee revenue and/or an increase in guaranteed contract claims, which also may require the Company to accelerate the amortization of DAC. See Part II, Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Equity Market Risk for a complete discussion of risk factors related to equity market risk, including guaranteed contracts. Deviations from assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity and interest rates used in calculating reserve amounts could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated net income. The process of calculating reserve amounts for a life insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with a company), mortality, morbidity and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in material adverse impacts on the Company’s consolidated net income. A decline in the Company’s financial strength ratings could adversely affect the Company’s operations. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Ratings for a description of risk factors related to ratings. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders rather than the Company. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Regulation at State Level for a general description of the regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders. Changes in regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may adversely impact pricing, reserve adequacy or exposure to litigation and could increase the costs of regulatory compliance by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Any proposed or future state legislation or regulations may negatively impact the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Certain changes in federal laws and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal legislation, administrative policies and court decisions may significantly and adversely affect certain areas of the Company’s business. In addition to product tax issues, these areas include pension and employee welfare benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation and taxation generally. For example, the following events could adversely affect the Company’s business: • changes in laws such as ERISA, as amended, that apply to group annuities (see Part I, Item 1—Business —Regulation—ERISA Considerations for a complete discussion of ERISA); • changes in tax laws that would reduce or eliminate the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products; • repeal of the federal estate tax; 17 Table of Contents • changes in the availability of, or rules concerning the establishment and operation of, Section 401(k), 401(a), 403(b) and 457 plans or individual retirement accounts; • changes in tax laws (see Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Tax Legislation for a description of risk factors related to potential tax legislation); or • changes in tax regulations, such as the proposed regulations that would alter the way tax sheltered annuities described in Section 403(b) of the IRC may be offered and sold. Litigation or regulatory actions in connection with late trading, market timing, compensation and bidding arrangements, unsuitable sales and replacements, the use of finite reinsurance and/or other sales practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings for a description of litigation and regulatory actions. These and future litigation matters may negatively affect the Company by resulting in the payment of substantial awards or settlements, increasing legal and compliance costs, requiring the Company to change certain aspects of its business operations, diverting management attention from other business issues or harming the Company’s reputation with customers. Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company is subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which periodically are revised and/or expanded. As such, the Company periodically is required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements could change the Company’s current application of GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military and other actions may result in decreases in the Company’s consolidated net income, revenue and assets under management and may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and abroad and the ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility and declines in the U.S., European and other securities markets, loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Actual terrorist attacks could cause a decrease in the Company’s consolidated net income and/or revenue as a result of decreased economic activity and/or payment of claims. In addition, some of the assets in the Company’s investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the securities markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. The Company cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which the Company maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Although the Company does not believe that the continued threat of terrorist attacks will have any material impact on the Company’s financial strength or performance, the Company can offer no assurances that this threat, future terrorist-like events in the U.S. and abroad or military actions by the U.S. will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The Company operates in a highly competitive industry, which can significantly impact operating results. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Competition for a description of competitive factors affecting the Company. The Company’s revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted as a result of competition. Unauthorized data access and other security breaches could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and reputation. Security breaches and other improper accessing of data in the Company’s facilities, networks or databases could result in loss or theft of data and information or systems interruptions that may expose the Company to liability and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. Moreover, any compromise of the security of the Company’s data could harm the Company’s reputation and business. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to implement security measures to prevent such security breaches. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2 PROPERTIES Pursuant to an arrangement between NMIC and certain of its subsidiaries, during 2006 the Company leased on average approximately 905,000 square feet of office space in the three-building home office complex and in other offices in central Ohio. In addition, the Company leases approximately 120,000 square feet of office space in Berwyn, Pennsylvania (of which approximately 90,000 square feet are subleased) and owns approximately 160,000 square feet of office space in Newark, Delaware (of which approximately 14,000 square feet are subleased to an affiliate). Also, during 2005 NMIC announced plans to build and occupy a six-story, 130,000 square foot building in Columbus, Ohio. This building is still under construction. The Company expects to lease some of this space from NMIC. The Company believes that its present and planned facilities are adequate for the anticipated needs of the Company. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 18 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a discussion of legal proceedings. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of 2006, no matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise. 19 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5 MARKET PRICE OF AND DIVIDENDS ON THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Class A common stock of NFS is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NFS.” As of February 26, 2007, NFS had 116,563 registered shareholders of Class A common stock. There is no established public trading market for the Company’s Class B common stock. All 91,778,717 shares of Class B common stock are owned by Nationwide Corp. The following table presents quarterly high, low and closing sales prices of NFS Class A common stock and cash dividends declared on such shares for each quarter of 2006 and 2005: Market price Dividends declared Quarter ended High Low Closing March 31, 2006 $ 44.94 $ 41.73 $ 43.02 $ 0.23 June 30, 2006 44.50 42.46 44.08 0.23 September 30, 2006 48.76 43.71 48.10 0.23 December 31, 2006 54.57 47.83 54.20 0.23 March 31, 2005 $ 38.47 $ 35.35 $ 35.90 $ 0.19 June 30, 2005 38.71 33.66 37.94 0.19 September 30, 2005 40.41 37.80 40.05 0.19 December 31, 2005 44.00 37.99 44.00 0.19 See Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Regulation of Dividends and Other Payments from Insurance Subsidiaries for information regarding restrictions on the ability of NFS’ insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to NFS. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. Stock Retainer Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Stock Retainer Plan), 101 shares of Class A common stock were issued by NFS during the fourth quarter of 2006, at an average price of $52.57 per share, to NFS directors who are not employees of NFS or its affiliates. This was a partial payment of the annual stock retainer paid by NFS to such directors in consideration of serving as directors of the Company. The annual stock retainer consists of a grant of deferred stock units under the Stock Retainer Plan having a value of $90,000. In addition, the directors receive an annual cash retainer of $45,000 (paid in monthly installments). The Chairman of the Board receives a supplemental annual retainer of $40,000, paid one-half in cash and one-half in shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, for his additional duties. This supplemental retainer of cash and stock is also paid in monthly installments. The issuance of such shares in partial payment of the annual retainer is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. See Note 14 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a description of the Company’s share repurchase program activity. 20 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the information required by Item 703 of Regulation S-K for purchases of NFS’ equity securities by NFS or any affiliated purchasers, as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act, during the Company’s fourth quarter: Period (a) Total number ofshares (or units)purchased (b) Average price paidper share (or unit) (c) Total number ofshares (or units)purchased as part ofpublicly announcedplans or programs (d) Maximum number(or approximate value)of shares (or units) thatmay yet be purchasedunder the plans orprograms October 2006 — N/A — $ 259.1 November 2006 413,600 $ 52.11 413,600 237.5 December 2006 3,952,950 51.90 3,952,950 32.4 Total 4,366,550 51.92 4,366,550 See Part III, Item 12—Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for additional information required by this item. The following graph shows a comparison of the Company’s cumulative total shareholder return along with the S&P 500 and an index of peer companies selected by the Company for the past five years. The following companies are included in the current peer group: Aflac Incorporated; Genworth Financial, Inc.; Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.; Lincoln National Corporation; Manulife Financial Corporation; MetLife Inc.; Protective Life Corporation; Principal Financial Group; and Prudential Financial, Inc. Companies included in the peer group have business operations similar to the Company and are considered to be significant competitors of the Company. 21 Table of Contents The graph plots the changes in the value of an initial $100 investment over the indicated time periods, assuming reinvestment of all dividends. Returns of the index of peer companies have been weighted according to their respective aggregate market capitalization at the beginning of each period shown on the graph. Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. S&P 500, Peer Group (Performance through December 31, 2006) * Assumes $100 invested at the close of trading on December 31, 2001 in Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. Class A common stock, S&P 500 and Peer Group. 12/31/2001 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 NFS $ 100.00 $ 70.19 $82.40 $97.18 $ 114.04 $ 143.25 S&P 500 100.00 76.63 96.85 105.56 108.73 123.54 Peer Group 100.00 92.87 119.90 151.42 189.26 218.22 There can be no assurance that the Company’s stock performance will continue into the future with the same or similar trends depicted in the preceding graph. The Company will not make or endorse any predictions as to future stock performance. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA Five-Year Summary Years ended or as of December 31, (in millions, except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statements of Income Data: Total revenues $ 4,415.5 $ 4,307.9 $ 4,076.1 $ 3,863.8 $ 3,243.9 Income from continuing operations 713.8 623.4 507.7 399.7 145.7 Net income 713.8 598.7 502.0 397.8 144.2 Earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 4.76 $ 4.08 $ 3.34 $ 2.63 $ 1.10 Diluted $ 4.74 $ 4.06 $ 3.32 $ 2.62 $ 1.10 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 4.76 $ 3.92 $ 3.30 $ 2.62 $ 1.09 Diluted $ 4.74 $ 3.90 $ 3.28 $ 2.61 $ 1.09 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 149.9 152.9 152.1 151.8 132.4 Diluted 150.7 153.6 152.9 152.3 132.6 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.92 $ 0.76 $ 0.72 $ 0.52 $ 0.51 Balance Sheets Data: Total assets $ 119,411.6 $ 116,159.9 $ 116,950.6 $ 111,088.2 $ 95,560.3 Long-term debt 1,398.5 1,398.0 1,406.0 1,405.6 1,197.6 Shareholders’ equity 5,538.3 5,350.4 5,215.1 4,875.4 4,443.3 Book value per common share $ 37.93 $ 35.08 $ 34.20 $ 32.10 $ 29.25 Segment Data: Customer funds managed and administered: Individual Investments $ 52,963.6 $ 51,227.6 $ 52,481.9 $ 49,333.9 $ 40,896.5 Retirement Plans 97,418.9 82,998.5 76,661.2 64,224.3 45,524.8 Individual Protection 19,686.8 17,388.6 15,683.0 13,897.1 12,158.9 Corporate and Other 4,821.8 3,998.2 4,401.6 4,606.3 4,273.6 Total $ 174,891.1 $ 155,612.9 $ 149,227.7 $ 132,061.6 $ 102,853.8 Pre-tax operating earnings (loss): Individual Investments $ 210.8 $ 237.0 $ 234.4 $ 182.9 $ (120.5 ) Retirement Plans 216.5 187.8 180.3 152.8 142.5 Individual Protection 274.8 258.2 242.7 215.5 188.1 Corporate and Other 67.7 55.7 58.6 54.8 18.2 Sales: Individual Investments $ 5,391.1 $ 4,109.2 $ 5,338.5 $ 6,738.8 $ 7,330.3 Retirement Plans 11,732.7 10,851.7 9,805.8 8,400.9 7,424.7 Individual Protection 1,962.0 1,825.2 1,766.8 1,722.5 1,543.3 Total $ 19,085.8 $ 16,786.1 $ 16,911.1 $ 16,862.2 $ 16,298.3 As described in Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Overview—Discontinued Operations, the results of operations of The 401(k) Company are reflected as discontinued operations for 2006 and all prior years. In addition, the results of operations of Cap Pro Holding, Inc. (Cap Pro), Nationwide Financial Services (Bermuda), Ltd. (NFSB) and William J. Lynch & Associates, Inc. (TBG Lynch) are reflected as discontinued operations for 2005 and all prior years. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE OF CONTENTS FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 25 OVERVIEW 26 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 29 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 33 SALES 36 BUSINESS SEGMENTS 42 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 60 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 63 OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS 65 INVESTMENTS 65 24 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Information The information included herein contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the results of operations and businesses of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries (NFS, or collectively, the Company). Whenever used in this report, words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “project,” “target” and other words of similar meaning are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated or projected, forecast, estimated or budgeted in such forward-looking statements include, among others, the following possibilities: (i) change in Nationwide Corporation’s control of the Company through its beneficial ownership of 94.4% of the combined voting power of all the outstanding common stock and 62.9% of the economic interest in the Company; (ii) NFS’ primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt service obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of NFS’ subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (iii) the potential impact on the Company’s reported net income and related disclosures that could result from the adoption of certain accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or other standard-setting bodies; (iv) tax law changes impacting the tax treatment of life insurance and investment products; (v) repeal of the federal estate tax; (vi) heightened competition, including specifically the intensification of price competition, the entry of new competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors; (vii) adverse state and federal legislation and regulation, including limitations on premium levels, increases in minimum capital and reserves, and other financial viability requirements; restrictions on mutual fund distribution payment arrangements such as revenue sharing and 12b-1 payments; and regulation changes resulting from industry practice investigations; (viii) failure to expand distribution channels in order to obtain new customers or failure to retain existing customers; (ix) inability to carry out marketing and sales plans, including, among others, development of new products and/or changes to certain existing products and acceptance of the new and/or revised products in the market; (x) changes in interest rates and the equity markets causing a reduction of investment income and/or asset fees, an acceleration of the amortization of DAC and/or value of business acquired (VOBA), a reduction in separate account assets or a reduction in the demand for the Company’s products; (xi) reduction in the value of the Company’s investment portfolio as a result of changes in interest rates and yields in the market as well as geopolitical conditions and the impact of political, regulatory, judicial, economic or financial events, including terrorism, affecting the market generally and companies in the Company’s investment portfolio specifically; (xii) general economic and business conditions which are less favorable than expected; (xiii) competitive, regulatory or tax changes that affect the cost of, or demand for, the Company’s products; (xiv) unanticipated changes in industry trends and ratings assigned by nationally recognized rating organizations; (xv) settlement of tax liabilities for amounts that differ significantly from those recorded on the balance sheets; 25 Table of Contents (xvi) deviations from assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality (including as a result of the outbreak of a pandemic illness, such as Avian Flu), morbidity and interest rates used in calculating reserve amounts and in pricing the Company’s products; (xvii) adverse litigation results and/or resolution of litigation and/or arbitration or investigation results that could result in monetary damages or impact the manner in which the Company conducts its operations; and (xviii) adverse consequences, including financial and reputation costs, regulatory problems and potential loss of customers resulting from failure to meet privacy regulations and/or protect the Company’s customers’ confidential information. Overview Following is management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of the Company for the three years ended December 31, 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page F-1 of this report. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Overview and Part I, Item 1—Business—Capital Stock Transactions for a description of the Company and its ownership structure. Business Segments Management views the Company’s business primarily based on its underlying products and uses this basis to define its four reportable segments: Individual Investments, Retirement Plans, Individual Protection, and Corporate and Other. The primary segment profitability measure that management uses is pre-tax operating earnings, which is calculated by adjusting income from continuing operations before federal income taxes and discontinued operations to exclude: (1) net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items, except for operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations); and (2) the adjustment to amortization of DAC and VOBA related to net realized gains and losses. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Business Segments for a description of the components of each segment. The following table summarizes pre-tax operating earnings by segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change 2004 Change Individual Investments $ 210.8 $ 237.0 (11)% $ 234.4 1% Retirement Plans 216.5 187.8 15% 180.3 4% Individual Protection 274.8 258.2 6% 242.7 6% Corporate and Other 67.7 55.7 22% 58.6 (5)% Revenues and Expenses The Company earns revenues and generates cash primarily from policy charges, life insurance premiums and net investment income. Policy charges include asset fees, which are earned primarily from separate account values generated from the sale of individual and group variable annuities and investment life insurance products; cost of insurance charges earned on universal life insurance products, which are assessed on the amount of insurance in force in excess of the related policyholder account value; administrative fees, which include fees charged per contract on a variety of the Company’s products and premium loads on universal life insurance 26 Table of Contents products; and surrender fees, which are charged as a percentage of premiums withdrawn during a specified period for annuity and certain life insurance contracts. Net investment income includes earnings on investments supporting fixed annuities, the MTN program and certain life insurance products, and earnings on invested assets not allocated to product segments, all net of related investment expenses. Other income includes asset fees, administrative fees, commissions and other income earned by subsidiaries of the Company that provide administrative, marketing and distribution services. Management makes decisions concerning the sale of invested assets based on a variety of market, business, tax and other factors. All realized gains and losses generated by these sales, charges related to other-than-temporary impairments of available-for-sale securities and other investments, and changes in valuation allowances on mortgage loans on real estate are reported in realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. Also included are changes in the fair values of derivatives qualifying as fair value hedges and the related changes in the fair values of hedged items; the ineffective, or excluded, portion of cash flow hedges; changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment; and periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives. The Company’s primary expenses include interest credited to policyholder account values, life insurance and annuity benefits, amortization of DAC and general business operating expenses. Interest credited principally relates to individual and group fixed annuities, funding agreements backing the Company’s MTN program and certain life insurance products. Life insurance and annuity benefits include policyholder benefits in excess of policyholder account values for universal life and individual deferred annuities and net claims and provisions for future policy benefits for traditional life insurance products and immediate annuities. The Company regularly evaluates and adjusts the DAC balance when actual gross profits in a given reporting period vary from management’s initial estimates, with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings. This process is referred to by the Company as a “true-up”, which is performed, and the resulting impact recognized, on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Company regularly evaluates its assumptions regarding the future estimated gross profits used as a basis for amortization of DAC and adjusts the total amortization recorded to date by a charge or credit to earnings if evidence suggests that these future assumptions and estimates should be revised. This process is referred to by the Company as “unlocking.” The Company regularly monitors its actual experience with factors impacting its assumptions about future expected gross profits and other relevant internal and external information regarding those assumptions and unlocks as such information and analysis warrants. Profitability The Company’s profitability largely depends on its ability to effectively price and manage risk on its various products, administer customer funds and control operating expenses. Lapse rates on existing contracts also impact profitability. The lapse rate and distribution of lapses affects surrender charges and impacts DAC amortization assumptions when lapse experience changes significantly. In particular, the Company’s profitability is driven by fee income on separate account products, general and separate account asset levels, and management’s ability to manage interest spread income. While asset fees are largely at guaranteed annual rates, amounts earned vary directly with the underlying performance of the separate accounts. Interest spread income is comprised of net investment income, excluding any applicable allocated charges for invested capital, less interest credited to policyholder account values. Interest spread income can vary depending on crediting rates offered by the Company; performance of the investment portfolio, including the rate of prepayments; changes in market interest rates; the competitive environment; and other factors. In addition, life insurance profits are significantly impacted by mortality, morbidity and persistency experience. 27 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations During December 2006, the Company announced an agreement to sell The 401(k) Company for $115.0 million in cash, subject to a post-closing adjustment. The Company expects to record a gain on this transaction when it is finalized during the first quarter of 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2005, management decided to discontinue the following operations: (1) Cap Pro, a majority-owned subsidiary of NFS that provided broker/dealer, registered investment advisor and insurance agency services to producers of certain certified public accounting firms; (2) NFSB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NFS that sold variable and fixed annuity products in offshore markets; and (3) TBG Lynch, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TBG Financial that distributed BOLI products. The results of operations of The 401(k) Company for 2006 and all prior years and for Cap Pro, NFSB and TBG Lynch for 2005 and all prior years are reflected as discontinued operations. However, the “Other Data” sections of the tables in the subsequent segment portions of MD&A include amounts applicable to the operations that were discontinued in 2006 and 2005. See Note 2(n) to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for additional information on discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Adoption of Accounting Principle The Company adopted Statement of Position (SOP) 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03-1), effective January 1, 2004, which resulted in a $3.4 million charge, net of taxes, as the cumulative effect of adoption of this accounting principle. See Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a complete description of SOP 03-1. Nationwide Bank The Company made an application to the OTS to expand the powers of NTC to include the full range of activities permissible for savings associations under the Home Owners’ Loan Act of 1933 and OTS regulations and to operate under the name Nationwide Bank. The OTS approved this application on April 18, 2006. Nationwide Bank and Nationwide Federal Credit Union (NFCU) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 16, 2006, pursuant to which Nationwide Bank would acquire 100% of the ownership interests in NFCU for $79.0 million in cash. The merger transaction was subject to a vote of the members of NFCU and approvals by certain federal regulatory agencies, including the OTS, the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The application to seek member vote on the proposed merger was approved by the NCUA on July 20, 2006. The members of NFCU approved the transaction at a special meeting on November 1, 2006. On November 6, 2006, the NCUA approved the methods and procedures used in the membership vote. On December 1, 2006 and December 15, 2006, Nationwide Bank received final regulatory approvals from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the OTS, respectively, to finalize its merger with NFCU. Closing and payment of merger consideration occurred on January 8, 2007. The merger consideration was distributed to NFCU members on a pro rata basis according to the members’ deposit account balances as of March 31, 2006. Acquisition On November 2, 2006, NFS and NMIC announced that they were in discussions regarding the Philadelphia-based retail asset management operations of NWD. On December 21, 2006, NFS and NMIC announced that they had reached an agreement outlining the preliminary terms for NFS’ purchase of NWD. On February 2, 2007, NFS entered into a stock purchase agreement with Nationwide Corporation. Total consideration in the transaction will be $225.0 million in cash, plus the value of NWD’s tangible shareholders’ equity at closing. The transaction is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2007 and is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the affected NWD funds to be acquired by NFS. 28 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. The Company’s most critical estimates include those used to determine the following: the balance, recoverability and amortization of DAC for investment and universal life insurance products; impairment losses on investments; valuation allowances for mortgage loans on real estate; the liability for future policy benefits and claims; and federal income tax provision. Note 2 and Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report provide a summary of significant accounting policies and a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, respectively. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs for Investment and Universal Life Insurance Products The Company has deferred certain costs of acquiring investment and universal life insurance products business, principally commissions, certain expenses of the policy issue and underwriting department, and certain variable sales expenses that relate to and vary with the production of new and renewal business. Investment products primarily consist of individual and group variable and fixed deferred annuities. Universal life insurance products include universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, COLI and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies. DAC is subject to recoverability testing in the year of policy issuance and loss recognition testing at the end of each reporting period. For investment and universal life insurance products, DAC is being amortized with interest over the lives of the policies in relation to the present value of estimated gross profits from projected interest margins, asset fees, cost of insurance charges, administration fees, surrender charges, and net realized gains and losses less policy benefits and policy maintenance expenses. The DAC asset related to investment products and universal life insurance products is adjusted to reflect the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, as described in Note 2(b) to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report. The most significant assumptions that are involved in the estimation of future gross profits include future net separate account performance, surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. The Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account performance is currently 8% growth per year. If actual net separate account performance varies from the 8% assumption, the Company assumes different performance levels over the next three years such that the mean return equals the long-term assumption. This process is referred to as a reversion to the mean. The assumed net separate account return assumptions used in the DAC models are intended to reflect what is anticipated. However, based on historical returns of the S&P 500 Index, and as part of its pre-set parameters, the Company’s reversion to the mean process generally limits returns to 0-15% during the three-year reversion period. Changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the amount of DAC reported for investment products and universal life insurance products and their related amortization patterns. In the event actual experience differs from assumptions or future assumptions are revised, the Company is required to record an increase or decrease in DAC amortization expense, which could be significant. In general, increases in the estimated general and separate account returns result in increased expected future profitability and may lower the rate of DAC amortization, while increases in lapse/surrender and mortality assumptions reduce the expected future profitability of the underlying business and may increase the rate of DAC amortization. Management evaluates the appropriateness of the individual variable annuity DAC balance within pre-set parameters. These parameters are designed to appropriately reflect the Company’s long-term expectations with respect to individual variable annuity contracts while also evaluating the potential impact of short-term 29 Table of Contents experience on the Company’s recorded individual variable annuity DAC balance. If the recorded balance of individual variable annuity DAC falls outside of these parameters for a prescribed period of time, or if the recorded balance falls outside of these parameters and management determines it is not reasonably possible to get back within the parameters during this period of time, assumptions are required to be unlocked and DAC is recalculated using revised best estimate assumptions. If DAC assumptions were unlocked and revised, the Company would continue to use the reversion to the mean process. For variable annuity products, the DAC balance is sensitive to the effects of changes in the Company’s estimates of gross profits, primarily due to the significant portion of the Company’s gross profits that are dependent upon the rate of return on assets held in separate accounts. This rate of return influences fees earned by the Company from these products and costs incurred by the Company associated with minimum contractual guarantees, as well as other sources of future expected gross profits. As previously stated, the Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account performance is currently 8% growth per year. In its ongoing evaluation of this assumption, the Company monitors its historical experience, market information and other relevant trends. To demonstrate the sensitivity of both the Company’s variable annuity product DAC balance, which was approximately $1.8 billion in aggregate at December 31, 2006, and related amortization, a 1% increase (to 9%) or decrease (to 7%) in the long-term assumption for net separate account performance would result in an approximately $20 million net increase or net decrease, respectively, in DAC amortization over the following year. These fluctuations are reasonably likely to occur. The information provided above considers only changes in the assumption for long-term net separate account performance and excludes changes in other assumptions used in the Company’s evaluation of DAC. For other investment and universal life insurance products, DAC is adjusted each quarter to reflect revised best estimate assumptions, including the use of a reversion to the mean methodology over the next three years as it relates to net separate account performance. Any resulting DAC true-up and unlocking adjustments are reflected currently in the consolidated statements of income. Impairment Losses on Investments Management regularly reviews each investment in its fixed maturity and equity securities portfolios to evaluate the necessity of recording impairment losses for other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of investments. Under the Company’s accounting policy for equity securities and debt securities that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that may limit the Company’s ability to fully recover cost, an impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary unless the Company has both the ability and intent to hold the investment until the security’s forecasted recovery and evidence exists indicating that recovery will occur in a reasonable period of time. Also, for such debt securities management estimates cash flows over the life of purchased beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. If management estimates that the fair value of its beneficial interest is not greater than or equal to its carrying value based on current information and events, and if there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate (considering both timing and amount), then the Company recognizes an other-than-temporary impairment and writes down the purchased beneficial interest to fair value. For other debt securities, an other-than-temporary impairment charge is taken when the Company does not have the ability and intent to hold the security until the forecasted recovery or if it is no longer probable that the Company will recover all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. Many criteria are considered during this process including, but not limited to, the current fair value as compared to cost or amortized cost, as appropriate, of the security; the amount and length of time a security’s fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; specific credit issues and financial prospects related to the issuer; management’s intent to hold or dispose of the security; and current economic conditions. 30 Table of Contents Other-than-temporary impairment losses result in a permanent reduction to the cost basis of the underlying investment. Impairment losses are recorded on investments in long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets’ carrying amounts. Significant changes in the factors management considers when evaluating investments for impairment losses, including significant deterioration in the credit worthiness of individual issuers, could result in a significant change in impairment losses reported in the consolidated financial statements. Valuation Allowances for Mortgage Loans on Real Estate The Company provides valuation allowances for impairments of mortgage loans on real estate based on a review by portfolio managers. Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. When management determines that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established equal to the difference between the carrying value and the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or the fair value of the collateral, if the loan is collateral dependent. In addition to the valuation allowance on specific loans, the Company maintains an unallocated allowance for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, but not yet specifically identified by loan. Changes in the valuation allowance are recorded in net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. Loans in foreclosure are placed on non-accrual status. Interest received on non-accrual status mortgage loans on real estate is included in net investment income in the period received. The valuation allowance account for mortgage loans on real estate is maintained at a level believed adequate by management and reflects management’s best estimate of probable credit losses, including losses incurred at the balance sheet date but not yet identified by specific loan. Management’s periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses is based on past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. Significant changes in the factors management considers in determining the valuation allowance for mortgage loans on real estate could result in a significant change in the valuation allowance reported in the consolidated financial statements. Future Policy Benefits and Claims The process of calculating reserve amounts for a life insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency, mortality, morbidity and interest rates. The Company calculates its liability for future policy benefits and claims for investment products in the accumulation phase and universal life and variable universal life insurance policies as the policy account balance, which represents participants’ net premiums and deposits plus investment performance and interest credited less applicable contract charges. The Company’s liability for funding agreements to an unrelated third party trust equals the balance that accrues to the benefit of the contractholder, including interest credited. The funding agreements constitute insurance obligations and are considered annuity contracts under Ohio insurance laws. The liability for future policy benefits and claims for traditional life insurance policies was calculated by the net level premium method using interest rates varying from 2.0% to 10.5% and estimates of mortality, morbidity, investment yields and withdrawals that were used or being experienced at the time the policies were issued. 31 Table of Contents The liability for future policy benefits for payout annuities was calculated using the present value of future benefits and maintenance costs discounted using interest rates varying generally from 3.0% to 13.0%. Federal Income Taxes Management provides for federal income taxes based on amounts it believes it ultimately will owe. Inherent in the provision for federal income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items and the realization of certain tax credits. In the event the ultimate deductibility of certain items or the realization of certain tax credits differs from estimates, management may be required to significantly change the provision for federal income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated statements of income. The Company’s federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Management has established tax reserves representing its best estimate of additional amounts it may be required to pay if certain tax positions it has taken are challenged and ultimately denied by the IRS. These reserves are reviewed regularly and are adjusted as events occur that management believes impact its liability for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits or substantial agreement on the deductibility/non-deductibility of uncertain items, additional exposure based on current calculations, identification of new issues, release of administrative guidance or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax issue. Management believes its tax reserves reasonably provide for potential assessments that may result from IRS examinations and other tax-related matters for all open tax years. 32 Table of Contents Results of Operations 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 691.2 $ 639.9 8% Cost of insurance charges 402.0 388.5 3% Administrative fees 139.1 114.9 21% Surrender fees 83.7 98.2 (15)% Total policy charges 1,316.0 1,241.5 6% Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 441.5 399.9 10% Net investment income 2,298.5 2,343.9 (2)% Net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items 9.1 20.8 NM Other income 350.4 301.8 16% Total revenues 4,415.5 4,307.9 2% Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 1,380.3 1,380.9 — Life insurance and annuity benefits 646.8 574.9 13% Policyholder dividends on participating policies 90.7 107.3 (15)% Amortization of DAC 462.9 480.2 (4)% Amortization of VOBA 46.0 45.0 2% Interest expense 103.7 108.0 (4)% Debt extinguishment costs — 21.7 NM Other operating expenses 906.2 833.8 9% Total benefits and expenses 3,636.6 3,551.8 2% Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 778.9 756.1 3% Federal income tax expense 65.1 132.7 (51)% Income from continuing operations 713.8 623.4 15% Discontinued operations, net of taxes — (24.7 ) NM Net income $ 713.8 $ 598.7 19% The increase in net income primarily was driven by a tax benefit of $114.2 million recorded during the second quarter of 2006 compared to tax benefits and recoverables totaling $48.2 million recorded during the third quarter of 2005. In addition, the Company recorded higher income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense primarily due to increases in policy charges, other income, and traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums. The comparison to the prior year also benefited from debt extinguishment costs incurred in 2005. Higher other operating expenses and life insurance and annuity benefits, combined with lower interest spread income, partially offset the overall increase in income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense. Through June 2006, the Company’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2000-2002 were under IRS examination pursuant to a routine audit. In accordance with its regular practice, management established tax reserves representing its best estimate of additional amounts the Company could be required to pay if certain positions it had taken were challenged and ultimately denied by the IRS with respect to these tax years. These 33 Table of Contents reserves are reviewed regularly and are adjusted as events occur that management believes impacts the Company’s liability for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations; conclusion of tax audits or substantial agreement on the deductibility/non-deductibility of uncertain items; additional exposure based on current calculations; identification of new issues; release of administrative guidance; or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax issue. A significant component of the Company’s tax reserve as of December 31, 2005 was related to the separate account dividends received reduction (DRD). In July 2006, the Company reached substantial agreement with the IRS on all open issues for tax years 2000-2002, including issues related to the DRD. Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of amounts that may be due in connection with certain tax positions, including the DRD, for all open tax years. As a result of the revised estimate, $114.2 million of tax reserves were released into earnings during the second quarter of 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded $8.3 million of net federal income tax expense adjustments primarily related to differences between the 2005 estimated tax liability and the amounts reported on the Company’s 2005 tax returns. During the third quarter of 2005, the Company refined its separate account DRD estimation process. As a result, the Company identified and recorded additional federal income tax benefits and recoverables in the amount of $42.6 million related to all tax years (2000 – 2005) that were open at that time. Also in the third quarter of 2005, the Company recorded $5.6 million of net benefit adjustments primarily related to differences between the 2004 estimated tax liability and the amounts reported on the Company’s 2004 tax returns. Because of the impact of this activity, along with the 2006 reserve release described above, the effective tax rates in 2006 and 2005 are not comparable. The increase in policy charges was driven by higher asset fees and administrative fees. Asset fees rose due to increases in both the average asset fee rate charged and average separate account values within the Individual Investments segment. The average variable asset fee rate increased as new business sold with living benefit riders and corresponding higher fee rates influenced the overall average rate. Administrative fees increased primarily in the Retirement Plans segment due to a policy adjustment related to the surrender of a group fixed annuity contract. See Part II—Item 7—MD&A—Business Segments—Retirement Plans for additional information. Higher other income primarily was attributable to the Retirement Plans segment due to higher average variable assets in the private sector NTC business driven by strong market performance. The increase in traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums was due to higher interest rates relative to a year ago, which created a favorable environment for immediate annuity product sales in the Individual Investments segment. During the third quarter of 2005, the Company redeemed certain long-term debt holdings and incurred non-cash debt extinguishment costs of $21.7 million. See Part II—Item 7—MD&A—Business Segments—Corporate and Other for further information. Most of the increase in other operating expenses was attributable to the Retirement Plans segment due to increased trail commissions from higher average variable assets and investments in technology, sales processes and infrastructure. Higher life insurance and annuity benefits primarily occurred within the Individual Investments segment due to increased immediate annuity benefit reserves, which were driven by growth in sales relative to a year ago and an increasing proportion of business with living benefit features. This increase is consistent with the corresponding increase in immediate annuity premiums and asset fees described above. Interest spread income decreased primarily within the Individual Investments segment due to a decline in general account assets caused by fixed annuity net outflows and lower income from mortgage loan prepayment penalties and bond call premiums. 34 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 639.9 $ 620.7 3% Cost of insurance charges 388.5 379.7 2% Administrative fees 114.9 117.9 (3)% Surrender fees 98.2 104.3 (6)% Total policy charges 1,241.5 1,222.6 2% Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 399.9 402.7 (1)% Net investment income 2,343.9 2,231.7 5% Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items 20.8 (32.2 ) NM Other income 301.8 251.3 20% Total revenues 4,307.9 4,076.1 6% Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 1,380.9 1,328.3 4% Life insurance and annuity benefits 574.9 548.6 5% Policyholder dividends on participating policies 107.3 101.4 6% Amortization of DAC 480.2 430.4 12% Amortization of VOBA 45.0 52.3 (14)% Interest expense 108.0 102.4 5% Debt extinguishment costs 21.7 — NM Other operating expenses 833.8 837.6 (1)% Total benefits and expenses 3,551.8 3,401.0 4% Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 756.1 675.1 12% Federal income tax expense 132.7 167.4 (21)% Income from continuing operations 623.4 507.7 23% Discontinued operations, net of taxes (24.7 ) (2.3 ) NM Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle, net of taxes — (3.4 ) NM Net income $ 598.7 $ 502.0 19% Excluding additional federal income tax benefits recorded during the third and fourth quarters of 2005 as discussed below and the impact of discontinued operations described previously, the increase in net income primarily was driven by higher interest spread income and other income; the recognition of net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items in 2005 compared to net losses in 2004; and increased asset fees. Higher amortization of DAC, increased other benefits and claims and debt extinguishment costs partially offset the overall improvement. The increase in interest spread income was driven by the Corporate and Other and Individual Investments segments. Within Corporate and Other, higher interest spread income was due to increased invested asset levels primarily as a result of higher excess capital and surplus retained in the Corporate and Other segment and improved earnings from common stock and real estate investments. The increase in interest spread income within the Individual Investments segment primarily resulted from a higher level of invested assets and lower crediting rates. 35 Table of Contents The increase in other income primarily occurred in the Retirement Plans segment due to higher asset-based fees from improving equity markets; revenue earned by RIA, which was acquired during the first quarter of 2005; and growth in trust and administration-only products. The Company recorded net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items during 2005 compared to net realized losses in 2004 primarily due to a significant decline in impairment charges. Asset fees rose primarily due to increases in both average separate account values and the average asset fee rate charged in the Individual Investments segment. Higher amortization of DAC primarily occurred within the Individual Investments segment due to increased variable annuity revenues. Fixed annuity true-ups and unlocking also contributed to the increase. The increase in other benefits and claims primarily was driven by an increase in immediate annuity business and growth in contracts containing guaranteed living benefits within the Individual Investments segment. Additionally, Individual Protection benefits and claims increased primarily as a result of increased insurance in force and a corresponding net amount at risk. During the third quarter of 2005, the Company paid $206.2 million to redeem all of its outstanding 7.10% junior subordinated debentures due October 1, 2028, which in turn caused the redemption by Nationwide Financial Services Capital Trust II of its outstanding 7.10% Trust Preferred Securities and 7.10% Trust Common Securities. As a result of this transaction, the Company incurred debt extinguishment costs of $21.7 million for accelerated amortization of unamortized debt issuance costs, including a deferred loss on previous hedging transactions. These amounts otherwise would have been recognized through 2028. Also during the third quarter of 2005, the Company refined its separate account DRD estimation process. As a result, the Company identified and recorded additional federal income tax benefits and recoverables in the amount of $42.6 million related to all tax years (2000 – 2005) that were open at that time. In addition, the Company recorded $5.6 million of net benefit adjustments primarily related to differences between the 2004 estimated tax liability and the amounts reported on the Company’s 2004 tax returns. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company revised the estimate for the separate account DRD and recorded an additional federal income tax benefit of $8.0 million based on additional information available at year end. Therefore, the full year 2005 effective tax rate of 17.5% was lower than the 2004 rate of 24.8% primarily due to the additional DRD recorded in 2005 compared to 2004. Sales The Company regularly monitors and reports a production volume metric titled “sales.” Sales or similar measures are commonly used in the insurance industry as a measure of the volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales are not derived from any specific GAAP income statement accounts or line items and should not be viewed as a substitute for any financial measure determined in accordance with GAAP, including sales as it relates to non-insurance companies. Additionally, the Company’s definition of sales may differ from that used by other companies. As used in the insurance industry, sales, or similarly titled measures, generate customer funds managed and administered, which ultimately drive revenues. As calculated and analyzed by management, statutory premiums and deposits on individual and group annuities and life insurance products calculated in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities and deposits on administration-only group retirement plans and the advisory services program are adjusted as described below to arrive at sales. Life insurance premiums determined on a GAAP basis are significantly different than statutory premiums and deposits. Life insurance premiums determined on a GAAP basis are recognized as revenue when due, as 36 Table of Contents calculated on an accrual basis in proportion to the service provided and performance rendered under the contract. In addition, many life insurance and annuity products involve an initial deposit or a series of deposits from customers. These deposits are accounted for as such on a GAAP basis and therefore are not reflected in the GAAP income statement. On a statutory basis, life insurance premiums collected (cash basis) and deposits received (cash basis) are aggregated and reported as statutory premiums and annuity consideration revenues. Sales, as reported by the Company, are stated net of internal replacements, which management believes provides a more meaningful disclosure of production in a given period. In addition, the Company’s definition of sales excludes funding agreements issued under the Company’s MTN program; asset transfers associated with large case BOLI and large case retirement plan acquisitions; and deposits into Nationwide employee and agent benefit plans. Although these products contribute to asset and earnings growth, their production flows potentially can mask trends in the underlying business and thus do not provide meaningful comparisons and analyses. Management believes that the presentation of sales as measured for management purposes enhances the understanding of the Company’s business and helps depict longer-term trends that may not be apparent in the results of operations due to differences between the timing of sales and revenue recognition. The Company’s flagship products are marketed under The BEST of AMERICA brand and include individual variable and group annuities, group private sector retirement plans sold through NTC, and variable life insurance. The BEST of AMERICA products allow customers to choose from investment options managed by premier mutual fund managers. The Company has also developed private label variable and fixed annuity products in conjunction with other financial services providers that allow those providers to sell products to their own customer bases under their own brand names. The Company also markets group deferred compensation retirement plans to employees of state and local governments for use under IRC Section 457. The Company utilizes its endorsement by NACo, USCM and IAFF when marketing IRC Section 457 products. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Overview for a description of the Company’s sales distribution network. 37 Table of Contents 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes sales by product and segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Individual Investments Individual variable annuities: The BEST of AMERICA products $ 4,390.9 $ 3,135.5 40% Private label annuities 356.6 346.6 3% NFN and other 3.6 4.7 (23)% Total individual variable annuities 4,751.1 3,486.8 36% Individual fixed annuities 186.5 194.4 (4)% Income products 230.7 196.7 17% Advisory services program 222.8 231.3 (4)% Total Individual Investments 5,391.1 4,109.2 31% Retirement Plans Private sector: The BEST of AMERICA annuity products 1,230.2 1,371.1 (10)% The BEST of AMERICA trust products 4,504.0 3,974.9 13% The 401(k) Company 1,722.7 1,342.3 28% NFN products 188.2 205.9 (9)% Other 69.4 75.8 (8)% Total private sector 7,714.5 6,970.0 11% Public sector: IRC Section 457 annuities 1,533.3 1,544.8 (1)% Administration-only agreements 2,484.9 2,336.9 6% Total public sector 4,018.2 3,881.7 4% Total Retirement Plans 11,732.7 10,851.7 8% Individual Protection Corporate-owned life insurance 805.9 657.5 23% Traditional/universal life insurance 517.1 512.7 1% The BEST of AMERICA variable life series 437.3 426.0 3% NFN variable life products 201.7 229.0 (12)% Total Individual Protection 1,962.0 1,825.2 7% Total sales $ 19,085.8 $ 16,786.1 14% See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Business Segments for an analysis of sales by product and segment. 38 Table of Contents The following table summarizes sales by distribution channel for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Non-affiliated: Independent broker/dealers $ 5,758.2 $ 5,266.0 9% Financial institutions 2,295.1 1,808.0 27% Wirehouse and regional firms 2,433.6 1,912.5 27% Pension plan administrators 532.8 469.0 14% Life insurance specialists 580.6 382.4 52% Total non-affiliated sales 11,600.3 9,837.9 18% Affiliated: NRS 4,050.2 3,914.7 3% The 401(k) Company 1,722.7 1,342.3 28% Nationwide agents 787.8 757.8 4% NFN producers 698.7 658.0 6% Mullin TBG 226.1 275.4 (18)% Total affiliated sales 7,485.5 6,948.2 8% Total sales $ 19,085.8 $ 16,786.1 14% The increase in total sales primarily was driven by higher variable annuity sales in the Individual Investments segment as a result of the strong performance of the recently introduced L.INC and CPPLI product riders. Also contributing to the overall increase were improved private sector sales in the Retirement Plans segment, led by trust products and The 401(k) Company, and higher COLI sales in the Individual Protection segment from the addition of a large case during 2006. Higher sales in the independent broker/dealers, financial institutions, and wirehouse and regional firms channels primarily were due to increased variable annuity sales, specifically products offering the L.INC and CPPLI riders as mentioned above. Sales generated by The 401(k) Company continued to grow as a result of larger annual employer discretionary contributions compared to the prior year and the addition of several large plans during 2006. Sales increased through the life insurance specialists channel due to the addition of a large case in 2006. 39 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes sales by product and segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Individual Investments Individual variable annuities: The BEST of AMERICA products $ 3,135.5 $ 3,674.3 (15)% Private label annuities 346.6 449.0 (23)% NFN and other 4.7 7.0 (33)% Total individual variable annuities 3,486.8 4,130.3 (16)% Individual fixed annuities 194.4 858.8 (77)% Income products 196.7 168.4 17% Advisory services program 231.3 181.0 28% Total Individual Investments 4,109.2 5,338.5 (23)% Retirement Plans Private sector: The BEST of AMERICA annuity products 1,371.1 1,679.7 (18)% The BEST of AMERICA trust products 3,974.9 3,232.0 23% The 401(k) Company 1,342.3 893.1 50% NFN products 205.9 335.8 (39)% Other 75.8 28.1 170% Total private sector 6,970.0 6,168.7 13% Public sector: IRC Section 457 annuities 1,544.8 1,514.2 2% Administration-only agreements 2,336.9 2,122.9 10% Total public sector 3,881.7 3,637.1 7% Total Retirement Plans 10,851.7 9,805.8 11% Individual Protection Corporate-owned life insurance 657.5 564.5 16% Traditional/universal life insurance 512.7 506.9 1% The BEST of AMERICA variable life series 426.0 439.6 (3)% NFN variable life products 229.0 255.8 (10)% Total Individual Protection 1,825.2 1,766.8 3% Total sales $ 16,786.1 $ 16,911.1 (1)% See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Business Segments for an analysis of sales by product and segment. 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes sales by distribution channel for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Non-affiliated: Independent broker/dealers $ 5,266.0 $ 5,223.2 1% Financial institutions 1,808.0 2,618.5 (31)% Wirehouse and regional firms 1,912.5 1,992.1 (4)% Pension plan administrators 469.0 476.1 (1)% Life insurance specialists 382.4 382.8 — Total non-affiliated sales 9,837.9 10,692.7 (8)% Affiliated: NRS 3,914.7 3,665.9 7% The 401(k) Company 1,342.3 893.1 50% Nationwide agents 757.8 714.3 6% NFN producers 658.0 760.9 (14)% Mullin TBG 275.4 184.2 50% Total affiliated sales 6,948.2 6,218.4 12% Total sales $ 16,786.1 $ 16,911.1 (1)% The slight decrease in total sales in 2005 primarily was driven by continued challenges within the Individual Investments segment, which was negatively impacted by the Company’s announced exit from the offshore fixed annuity business in the second quarter of 2005 due to a challenging rate environment that depressed margins on this business. In addition, the variable annuity line experienced lower sales of The BEST of AMERICA products, especially the MarketFLEX product. The overall decline in sales partially was offset by strong sales in the Retirement Plans segment, led by small 401(k) plan sales. Sales generated by financial institutions declined primarily due to intense competition in fixed annuity sales and the impact of the exit from the offshore fixed annuity market mentioned above. The overall decline was partially offset by increases in sales in both the Individual Protection and Retirement Plans segments. The 401(k) Company sales continued to grow primarily due to recurring flows from the addition of four large plans during the fourth quarter of 2004. NRS sales growth continued primarily due to recurring deposits from the State of New York, the State of California and the City of Phoenix cases and higher than anticipated rates of plan transfers. 41 Table of Contents Business Segments Individual Investments 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Individual Investments segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 511.4 $ 461.9 11% Administrative fees 20.4 16.2 26% Surrender fees 56.6 62.1 (9)% Total policy charges 588.4 540.2 9% Premiums on income products 142.5 102.9 38% Net investment income 781.1 869.9 (10)% Other income 2.3 1.5 53% Total revenues 1,514.3 1,514.5 — Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 528.3 589.1 (10)% Annuity benefits and claims 202.4 155.4 30% Amortization of DAC 352.7 329.3 7% Amortization of VOBA 6.5 7.2 (10)% Other operating expenses 213.6 196.5 9% Total benefits and expenses 1,303.5 1,277.5 2% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 210.8 $ 237.0 (11)% Other Data Sales: Individual variable annuities $ 4,751.1 $ 3,486.8 36% Individual fixed annuities 186.5 194.4 (4)% Income products 230.7 196.7 17% Advisory services program 222.8 231.3 (4)% Total sales $ 5,391.1 $ 4,109.2 31% Average account values: General account $ 14,041.3 $ 15,966.7 (12)% Separate account 37,223.3 35,600.5 5% Advisory services program 508.1 309.3 64% Total average account values $ 51,772.7 $ 51,876.5 — Account values as of period end: Individual variable annuities $ 43,804.8 $ 40,796.0 7% Individual fixed annuities 6,536.1 8,041.8 (19)% Income products 2,025.6 1,978.3 2% Advisory services program 597.1 411.5 45% Total account values $ 52,963.6 $ 51,227.6 3% GMDB—Net amount at risk, net of reinsurance $ 122.2 $ 184.3 (34)% GMDB—Reserves, net of reinsurance $ 29.6 $ 27.2 9% Pre-tax operating earnings to average account values 0.41 % 0.46 % 42 Table of Contents The decrease in pre-tax operating earnings was driven by higher annuity benefits and claims, lower interest spread income, increased amortization of DAC and higher other operating expenses. Increased asset fees and premiums on income products partially offset the overall decrease. The increase in annuity benefits and claims was driven by increased immediate annuity reserves due to growth in sales relative to a year ago and an increasing proportion of business with living benefit features. This increase is consistent with the increase in premiums on income products noted below. The following table summarizes the interest spread on Individual Investments segment average general account values for the years ended December 31: 2006 2005 Net investment income 5.74% 5.61% Interest credited 3.76% 3.69% Interest spread on average general account values 1.98% 1.92% Interest spread income declined even though interest spread margins widened during 2006 to 198 basis points compared to 192 basis points in 2005. Lower general account assets caused by fixed annuity net outflows drove a $16.0 million of the total reduction in interest spread income. In addition, 2006 included only 15 basis points, or $21.0 million, of income from mortgage loan prepayment penalties and bond call premiums compared to 20 basis points, or $33.0 million, in 2005. For 2007, the Company expects interest spread margins to tighten in this segment and projects full year spreads of 185 to 190 basis points, including a nominal level of prepayment activity. Amortization of DAC increased primarily due to higher variable annuity gross profits driven by higher asset levels. Higher gross profits accounted for $20.8 million of the increase compared to 2005. Other operating expenses increased primarily due to higher sales incentives and employee compensation and benefits. In addition, in 2006 the Company began expensing at fair value the costs resulting from share-based payment transactions in accordance with SFAS 123R, resulting in $3.7 million in expense for this segment. Asset fees rose due to both a higher average asset fee rate charged and higher average separate account values, representing approximately $28 million and $22 million, respectively, of the overall increase. The average variable asset fee rate increased to 1.37% from 1.30% in the prior year as new business sold with living benefit riders and corresponding higher fee rates influenced the overall average rate. The increase in premiums on income products was due to higher interest rates relative to a year ago, which created a favorable environment for immediate annuity product sales. The Federal Funds rate was 5.25% at December 31, 2006 compared to 4.25% at December 31, 2005. Higher sales occurred in the variable annuity business driven by the recently introduced L.INC and CPPLI product riders and a more targeted sales process. Sales of products with the L.INC and CPPLI riders accounted for $886.3 million and $451.9 million, respectively, of the increase in sales compared to 2005. 43 Table of Contents The following table summarizes selected information about the Company’s deferred individual fixed annuities, including the fixed option of variable annuities, as of December 31, 2006: Ratchet Reset Market value adjustment (MVA) and other Total (dollars in millions) Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Minimum interest rate of3.50% or greater $ — N/A $ 1,027.5 4.28 % $ — N/A $ 1,027.5 4.28 % Minimum interest rate of3.00% to 3.49% 2,130.2 4.59 % 4,720.4 3.13 % — N/A 6,850.6 3.58 % Minimum interest ratelower than 3.00% 848.3 3.32 % 615.2 3.59 % 38.3 3.91 % 1,501.8 3.45 % MVA with no minimuminterest rate guarantee — N/A — N/A 1,586.9 2.88 % 1,586.9 2.88 % Total deferred individualfixed annuities $ 2,978.5 4.23 % $ 6,363.1 3.36 % $ 1,625.2 2.91 % $ 10,966.8 3.53 % 44 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Individual Investments segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 461.9 $ 435.5 6% Administrative fees 16.2 15.7 3% Surrender fees 62.1 62.2 — Total policy charges 540.2 513.4 5% Premiums on income products 102.9 90.8 13% Net investment income 869.9 872.8 — Other income 1.5 0.4 NM Total revenues 1,514.5 1,477.4 3% Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 589.1 606.1 (3)% Annuity benefits and claims 155.4 139.2 12% Amortization of DAC 329.3 276.1 19% Amortization of VOBA 7.2 7.5 (4)% Other operating expenses 196.5 214.1 (8)% Total benefits and expenses 1,277.5 1,243.0 3% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 237.0 $ 234.4 1% Other Data Sales: Individual variable annuities $ 3,486.8 $ 4,130.3 (16)% Individual fixed annuities 194.4 858.8 (77)% Income products 196.7 168.4 17% Advisory services program 231.3 181.0 28% Total sales $ 4,109.2 $ 5,338.5 (23)% Average account values: General account $ 15,966.7 $ 16,211.1 (2)% Separate account 35,600.5 34,198.8 4% Advisory services program 309.3 99.1 NM Total average account values $ 51,876.5 $ 50,509.0 3% Account values as of period end: Individual variable annuities $ 40,796.0 $ 41,481.9 (2)% Individual fixed annuities 8,041.8 8,902.5 (10)% Income products 1,978.3 1,901.6 4% Advisory services program 411.5 195.9 110% Total account values $ 51,227.6 $ 52,481.9 (2)% GMDB—Net amount at risk, net of reinsurance $ 184.3 $ 305.4 (40)% GMDB—Reserves, net of reinsurance $ 27.2 $ 23.7 15% Pre-tax operating earnings to average account values 0.46 % 0.46 % 45 Table of Contents The slight increase in pre-tax operating earnings primarily was driven by higher asset fees, lower other operating expenses, additional interest spread income and increased premiums on income products, offset by increases in amortization of DAC and annuity benefits and claims. Asset fees rose due to both higher average separate account values and a higher average asset fee rate charged, representing approximately $18 million and $8 million, respectively, of the overall increase. The increase in average separate account values primarily was due to the general upward trend in the equity and fixed income markets offset in part by withdrawals that exceeded new deposits. The average variable asset fee rate increased from 1.27% to 1.30% as new business sold with living benefit riders influenced the overall average rate. Other operating expenses improved primarily due to lower sales incentives and reduced technology expenses. The following table summarizes the interest spread on Individual Investments segment average general account values for the years ended December 31: 2005 2004 Net investment income 5.61 % 5.52 % Interest credited 3.69 % 3.74 % Interest spread on average general account values 1.92 % 1.78 % Interest spread margins widened during 2005 to 192 basis points compared to 178 basis points in 2004. Included in 2005 were 20 basis points, or $33.0 million, of income from mortgage loan prepayment penalties and bond call premiums compared to 12 basis points, or $19.5 million, in 2004. The higher interest rate environment in 2005 relative to 2004 eased the pressure on margins due to the interest rate floors contained in certain annuity contracts and contributed to increased margins. The increase in premiums on income products was driven by improving the competitiveness of the Company’s immediate annuity products by increasing the fixed purchase rate offered. Higher amortization of DAC in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily was due to increased variable annuity gross profits driven by favorable market experience and business growth, which resulted in a $34.9 million true-up of amortization. In addition, increased fixed annuity gross profits, which were driven by higher income from mortgage loan prepayments and bond call premiums as well as increased surrender fees, resulted in a $5.0 million true-up of amortization. Unlocking within fixed annuities resulted in an additional $13.3 million of increased amortization in 2005 compared to 2004. The increase in benefits and claims primarily was driven by increased premiums from immediate annuity products and growth in contracts containing guaranteed living benefits. The decrease in fixed annuity sales was due to the competitive interest rate environment and the Company’s exit from the offshore fixed annuity business in the second quarter of 2005 as discussed earlier. In addition, the variable annuity line experienced lower sales of The BEST of AMERICA products, especially the MarketFLEX product, consistent with industry-wide declines. 46 Table of Contents The following table summarizes selected information about the Company’s deferred individual fixed annuities, including the fixed option of variable annuities, as of December 31, 2005: Ratchet Reset Market value adjustment (MVA) and other Total (dollars in millions) Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Accountvalue Weightedaveragecreditingrate Minimum interest rate of3.50% or greater $ — N/A $ 1,388.5 4.13% $ — N/A $ 1,388.5 4.13% Minimum interest rate of3.00% to 3.49% 2,976.0 4.94% 5,856.6 3.09% — N/A 8,832.6 3.71% Minimum interest ratelower than 3.00% 886.4 3.26% 353.5 3.10% 7.9 3.41% 1,247.8 3.22% MVA with no minimuminterest rate guarantee — N/A — N/A 1,543.8 3.01% 1,543.8 3.01% Total deferred individualfixed annuities $ 3,862.4 4.55% $ 7,598.6 3.28% $ 1,551.7 3.01% $ 13,012.7 3.63% 47 Table of Contents Retirement Plans 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Retirement Plans segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 134.0 $ 137.8 (3)% Administrative fees 36.0 8.7 NM Surrender fees 4.5 8.2 (45)% Total policy charges 174.5 154.7 13% Net investment income 652.2 661.4 (1)% Other income 284.2 225.6 26% Total revenues 1,110.9 1,041.7 7% Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 451.6 455.0 (1)% Amortization of DAC 38.3 47.4 (19)% Amortization of VOBA 6.9 3.5 97% Other operating expenses 397.6 348.0 14% Total benefits and expenses 894.4 853.9 5% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 216.5 $ 187.8 15% Other Data Sales: Private sector $ 7,714.5 $ 6,970.0 11% Public sector 4,018.2 3,881.7 4% Total sales $ 11,732.7 $ 10,851.7 8% Average account values: General account $ 11,093.0 $ 10,881.2 2% Separate account 18,512.4 19,792.0 (6)% Non-insurance assets 16,515.0 12,500.3 32% Administration-only 42,854.4 36,217.3 18% Total average account values $ 88,974.8 $ 79,390.8 12% Account values as of period end: Private sector $ 53,467.1 $ 42,906.5 25% Public sector 43,951.8 40,092.0 10% Total account values $ 97,418.9 $ 82,998.5 17% Pre-tax operating earnings to average account values 0.24 % 0.24 % The increase in pre-tax operating earnings primarily was driven by higher other income and administrative fees and lower amortization of DAC, partially offset by higher other operating expenses. The increase in other income, which includes administrative fees from non-insurance retirement and deferred compensation plans and asset-based fees from the NTC small-plan 401(k) platform, primarily was driven by higher other asset fees and mutual fund revenue of $34.3 million and $19.8 million, respectively, resulting from higher average variable assets. 48 Table of Contents The increase in administrative fees primarily was due to the surrender of a group fixed annuity contract, which resulted in an $18.6 million policy adjustment in the second quarter of 2006. In addition, the surrender of a group retirement plan in the third quarter of 2006 resulted in the recognition of $5.1 million of previously deferred revenue and $3.5 million of related VOBA amortization. Amortization of DAC was lower in 2006 primarily due to unlocking in 2005 related to mutual fund revenue assumptions that resulted in higher amortization expense in 2005 compared to favorable true-ups in 2006. The increase in other operating expenses reflects higher trail commissions of $18.6 million from increased average variable assets and higher asset-based variable expenses. Trail commissions represent compensation paid to the Company’s producing firms that is based on the level of assets under management rather than new deposits made in a given time period. Instead of paying a one-time amount at the point of sale, a smaller payment is made each period that the business remains in force. In some cases, a combination of both types of compensation is paid. In addition, the current year included $7.1 million of amortization related to an internally developed software application that did not exist in the same period a year ago. The following table summarizes the interest spread on Retirement Plans segment average general account values for the years ended December 31: 2006 2005 Net investment income 5.88 % 6.08 % Interest credited 4.07 % 4.18 % Interest spread on average general account values 1.81 % 1.90 % Interest spread margins declined to 181 basis points in 2006 compared to 190 basis points for 2005. Included in 2006 were 9 basis points, or $9.9 million, of income from mortgage loan prepayment penalties and bond call premiums compared to 20 basis points, or $22.1 million, in 2005. For 2007, the Company expects interest spread margins to continue to remain relatively stable in this segment and projects full year spreads of 180 to 185 basis points, including a nominal level of prepayment activity. Private sector sales rose due to sales generated by The 401(k) Company as a result of larger annual employer discretionary contributions compared to the prior year and the addition of several large plans during 2006. Public sector sales increased due to increased flows from existing cases and higher rates of plan transfers, especially IAFF cases. These increases were partially offset by the fixed annuity contract withdrawal mentioned previously. 49 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Retirement Plans segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 137.8 $ 150.8 (9)% Administrative fees 8.7 8.9 (2)% Surrender fees 8.2 12.1 (32)% Total policy charges 154.7 171.8 (10)% Net investment income 661.4 647.6 2% Other income 225.6 160.1 41% Total revenues 1,041.7 979.5 6% Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 455.0 446.1 2% Amortization of DAC 47.4 39.9 19% Amortization of VOBA 3.5 4.7 (26)% Other operating expenses 348.0 308.5 13% Total benefits and expenses 853.9 799.2 7% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 187.8 $ 180.3 4% Other Data Sales: Private sector $ 6,970.0 $ 6,168.7 13% Public sector 3,881.7 3,637.1 7% Total sales $ 10,851.7 $ 9,805.8 11% Average account values: General account $ 10,881.2 $ 10,175.6 7% Separate account 19,792.0 20,287.9 (2)% Non-insurance assets 12,500.3 8,315.6 50% Administration-only 36,217.3 30,078.1 20% Total average account values $ 79,390.8 $ 68,857.2 15% Account values as of period end: Private sector $ 42,906.5 $ 37,736.0 14% Public sector 40,092.0 38,925.2 3% Total account values $ 82,998.5 $ 76,661.2 8% Pre-tax operating earnings to average account values 0.24 % 0.26 % The increase in pre-tax operating earnings was driven by higher other income, partially offset by higher other operating expenses, lower policy charges and higher amortization of DAC. The increase in other income was due to higher average variable assets, increased equity returns, NTC business growth, small case 401(k) asset growth and RIA revenue. These factors drove higher other asset fees and mutual fund revenue of $38.5 million and $19.6 million, respectively Higher other operating expenses reflects a $17.1 million increase in trail commissions from increased average variable assets, $4.8 million higher deposit commissions associated with business growth and inclusion of $4.2 million of expenses related to the newly acquired RIA business early in 2005. 50 Table of Contents The decline in policy charges was driven by nearly all new contract sales coming from NTC non-annuity contracts, whose fees are recorded as other income versus policy charges, and continued surrenders of group annuity contracts. The increase in amortization of DAC was related to changes in private sector amortization assumptions driven by actual experience for the declining block of group annuity business. The following table summarizes the interest spread on Retirement Plans segment average general account values for the years ended December 31: 2005 2004 Net investment income 6.08 % 6.36 % Interest credited 4.18 % 4.38 % Interest spread on average general account values 1.90 % 1.98 % Interest spread margins declined to 190 basis points in 2005 compared to 198 basis points for 2004. Included in 2005 were 20 basis points, or $22.1 million, of income from mortgage loan prepayment penalties and bond call premiums compared to 18 basis points, or $17.9 million, in 2004. Excluding the impact from prepayment activity, the decrease in margins was driven by the combination of long-duration higher yielding assets rolling over into lower yielding assets as yields on new cash flows were below the portfolio rate. Private sector sales increases were driven by additional production through the independent broker/dealers and financial institutions channels and growth at The 401(k) Company primarily due to flows associated with the addition of four large plans during the fourth quarter of 2004. The increase in public sector sales was due to growth in large cases, including the State of New York, the State of California, the State of Maryland, the State of Florida and the City of Phoenix plans. Growth in the State of New York plan occurred due to increased participation at the state level, along with increased adoption of the state’s plan by smaller entities, which added large numbers of eligible participants. The increased sales in the State of California and the City of Phoenix plans primarily were due to higher plan transfers. The majority of the increases related to the State of Maryland and the State of Florida plans were associated with the re-introduction of the state-funded 401(a) plan. 51 Table of Contents Individual Protection 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Individual Protection segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 45.8 $ 40.2 14% Cost of insurance charges 402.0 388.5 3% Administrative fees 82.7 90.0 (8)% Surrender fees 22.6 27.9 (19)% Total policy charges 553.1 546.6 1% Traditional life insurance premiums 299.0 297.0 1% Net investment income 468.1 475.1 (1)% Other income 25.3 29.8 (15)% Total revenues 1,345.5 1,348.5 — Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 191.7 190.7 1% Life insurance benefits 444.4 419.5 6% Policyholder dividends on participating policies 90.7 107.3 (15)% Amortization of DAC 81.6 102.7 (21)% Amortization of VOBA 32.6 34.3 (5)% Other operating expenses 229.7 235.8 (3)% Total benefits and expenses 1,070.7 1,090.3 (2)% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 274.8 $ 258.2 6% Other Data Sales: Corporate-owned life insurance $ 805.9 $ 657.5 23% Traditional/universal life insurance 517.1 512.7 1% The BEST of AMERICA variable life series 437.3 426.0 3% NFN variable life products 201.7 229.0 (12)% Total sales $ 1,962.0 $ 1,825.2 7% Policy reserves as of period end: Individual investment life insurance $ 5,842.5 $ 5,329.5 10% Corporate investment life insurance 8,514.4 6,744.6 26% Traditional life insurance 4,170.9 4,225.2 (1)% Universal life insurance 1,159.0 1,089.3 6% Total policy reserves $ 19,686.8 $ 17,388.6 13% Insurance in force as of period end: Individual investment life insurance $ 57,536.7 $ 57,021.7 1% Corporate investment life insurance 24,764.4 23,635.5 5% Traditional life insurance 41,061.3 36,589.3 12% Universal life insurance 9,950.3 9,114.6 9% Total insurance in force $ 133,312.7 $ 126,361.1 6% 52 Table of Contents The increase in pre-tax operating earnings primarily was driven by decreased amortization of DAC, lower policyholder dividends on participating policies and increased cost of insurance charges. Higher life insurance benefits, lower net investment income and lower administrative fees partially offset the overall increase. Amortization of DAC declined primarily due to unlocking related to mortality assumptions within the fixed life line of business resulting in $17.4 million of lower DAC amortization. Higher cost of insurance charges were due to increased business in force combined with the aging of the individual life business block. The aging of a block generally increases cost of insurance charges. Higher life insurance benefits were due to adverse mortality in both the fixed and investment life businesses, partially offset by a $3.3 million waiver of premium reserve release in fixed life during the first quarter of 2006. The overall increase in total policyholder benefits was partially offset by lower policyholder dividends on participating policies, primarily driven by a lower current dividend scale. Despite the slight growth in fixed account assets, net investment income declined primarily due to a $7.0 million decrease in mortgage loan prepayment and bond call premium income compared to the prior year. Administrative fees decreased primarily due to a change in business mix in the current year. The increase in sales primarily was attributable to significant COLI production during 2006. 53 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Individual Protection segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Statements of Income Data Revenues: Policy charges: Asset fees $ 40.2 $ 34.4 17% Cost of insurance charges 388.5 379.7 2% Administrative fees 90.0 93.3 (4)% Surrender fees 27.9 30.0 (7)% Total policy charges 546.6 537.4 2% Traditional life insurance premiums 297.0 311.9 (5)% Net investment income 475.1 467.9 2% Other income 29.8 32.9 (9)% Total revenues 1,348.5 1,350.1 — Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 190.7 189.4 1% Life insurance benefits 419.5 409.4 2% Policyholder dividends on participating policies 107.3 101.4 6% Amortization of DAC 102.7 114.4 (10)% Amortization of VOBA 34.3 40.1 (14)% Other operating expenses 235.8 252.7 (7)% Total benefits and expenses 1,090.3 1,107.4 (2)% Pre-tax operating earnings $ 258.2 $ 242.7 6% Other Data Sales: Corporate-owned life insurance $ 657.5 $ 564.5 16% Traditional/universal life insurance 512.7 506.9 1% The BEST of AMERICA variable life series 426.0 439.6 (3)% NFN variable life products 229.0 255.8 (10)% Total sales $ 1,825.2 $ 1,766.8 3% Policy reserves as of period end: Individual investment life insurance $ 5,329.5 $ 4,962.1 7% Corporate investment life insurance 6,744.6 5,444.1 24% Traditional life insurance 4,225.2 4,278.9 (1)% Universal life insurance 1,089.3 997.9 9% Total policy reserves $ 17,388.6 $ 15,683.0 11% Insurance in force as of period end: Individual investment life insurance $ 57,021.7 $ 56,836.7 — Corporate investment life insurance 23,635.5 10,904.1 117% Traditional life insurance 36,589.3 32,979.4 11% Universal life insurance 9,114.6 8,505.5 7% Total insurance in force $ 126,361.1 $ 109,225.7 16% 54 Table of Contents Higher pre-tax operating earnings were driven by lower other operating expenses and amortization of DAC and higher cost of insurance charges. A decline in life insurance premiums and increased life insurance benefits partially offset the overall increase. Lower other operating expenses primarily resulted from a decline in certain uncapitalized commissions due to a shift in mix to products with lower commission rates. Also contributing to the decrease were higher capitalization of certain software charges related to a systems consolidation project with an increase in the amounts eligible to be capitalized and additional mutual fund expense reimbursements from increased separate account values. The decrease in amortization of DAC resulted from lower amortization in the universal life business primarily related to mortality experience. The increase in cost of insurance charges reflects a growing block of investment and universal life business with increased insurance in force. The aging of the block generally tends to increase the cost of insurance charged. Life insurance premiums decreased due to the expected decline of the NFN closed block, lower fixed life sales and the impact of changes in reinsurance coverage from yearly renewable term to coinsurance in the traditional life portfolio. The life insurance benefits increase was due to adverse overall mortality experience compared to 2004. In addition, benefit charges increased in the fixed and variable universal life and traditional life businesses due to increased insurance in force. Higher sales were driven by improved COLI sales, partially offset by declines in variable life production. The increase in COLI sales was driven by several large cases that closed during 2005 and a more favorable legislative environment. 55 Table of Contents Corporate and Other 2006 Compared to 2005 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Corporate and Other segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2006 2005 Change Statements of Income Data Operating revenues: Net investment income $ 397.1 $ 337.5 18% Other income 48.3 47.5 2% Total operating revenues 445.4 385.0 16% Benefits and operating expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 208.7 146.1 43% Interest expense on debt 103.1 107.7 (4)% Debt extinguishment costs — 21.7 NM Other operating expenses 65.9 53.8 22% Total benefits and operating expenses 377.7 329.3 15% Pre-tax operating earnings 67.7 55.7 22% Net realized (losses) gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 (0.6 ) 18.2 NM Adjustment to amortization related to net realized gains and losses 9.7 (0.8 ) NM Income from continuing operations before federal income taxes $ 76.8 $ 73.1 5% Other Data Account values as of period end— Funding agreements backing medium-term notes $ 4,599.5 $ 3,998.2 15% Nationwide Bank 222.3 — NM Total account values $ 4,821.8 $ 3,998.2 21% 1 Excluding operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations). Pre-tax operating earnings increased primarily due to the aforementioned prior year debt extinguishment costs along with lower interest expense on debt, partially offset by higher other operating expenses. During the third quarter of 2005, the Company paid $206.2 million to redeem all of its outstanding 7.10% junior subordinated debentures due October 1, 2028, which in turn caused the redemption by Nationwide Financial Services Capital Trust II of its outstanding 7.10% Trust Preferred Securities and 7.10% Trust Common Securities. As a result of this transaction, the Company incurred debt extinguishment costs of $21.7 million for accelerated amortization of unamortized debt issuance costs, including a deferred loss on previous hedging transactions. These amounts otherwise would have been recognized through 2028. The decline in interest expense on debt was due to a $5.6 million decrease in short-term interest expense driven by lower average short-term debt balances in 2006 compared to the prior year. Higher other operating expenses primarily were driven by Nationwide Bank start-up costs of $14.0 million and increased retail broker/dealer project costs, partially offset by lower legal expenses due to favorable developments on several cases in 2006. 56 Table of Contents The Company recorded net realized losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items during 2006 compared to net realized gains in the prior year primarily due to an increase in gross losses on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially offset by lower current year impairments as 2005 included significant losses on airline industry holdings. The following table summarizes net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items from continuing operations by source for the periods indicated: (in millions) 2006 2005 Total realized gains on sales, net of hedging losses $ 98.7 $ 98.5 Total realized losses on sales, net of hedging gains (75.6 ) (28.7 ) Total other-than-temporary and other investment impairments (16.8 ) (41.2 ) Credit default swaps (1.1 ) (7.5 ) Periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives 1.9 1.0 Other derivatives (0.6 ) 1.2 Trading portfolio valuation gain — 0.4 Total realized gains before adjustments 6.5 23.7 Amounts credited to policyholder dividend obligation 0.1 (5.2 ) Other 2.5 2.3 Net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items $ 9.1 $ 20.8 The Company has a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process for fixed maturity and equity securities to identify and evaluate the necessity of recording impairment losses for other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of investments. See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Impairment Losses on Investments for a complete discussion of this process. 57 Table of Contents 2005 Compared to 2004 The following table summarizes selected financial data for the Company’s Corporate and Other segment for the years ended December 31: (dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Change Statements of Income Data Operating revenues: Net investment income $ 337.5 $ 243.4 39% Other income 47.5 66.6 (29)% Total operating revenues 385.0 310.0 24% Benefits and operating expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 146.1 86.7 69% Interest expense on debt 107.7 102.4 5% Debt extinguishment costs 21.7 — NM Other operating expenses 53.8 62.3 (14)% Total benefits and operating expenses 329.3 251.4 31% Pre-tax operating earnings 55.7 58.6 (5)% Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 18.2 (40.9 ) NM Adjustment to amortization of DAC related to net realized gains and losses (0.8 ) — NM Income from continuing operations before federal income taxes $ 73.1 $ 17.7 NM Other Data Account values as of period end—Funding agreements backing medium-term notes $ 3,998.2 $ 4,401.6 (9)% 1 Excluding operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations). Pre-tax operating earnings declined slightly due to the aforementioned debt extinguishment costs and lower other income, partially offset by higher interest spread income. Other income and other expenses declined due to a $7.3 million reclassification of activity related to variable interest entities (VIEs) between other expenses and other income. In addition, other income was impacted by a decrease in the number of structured products transactions as margins on these deals compressed. Interest spread income rose due to increased invested asset levels as a result of higher excess capital and surplus retained in this segment and improved earnings from common stock and real estate investments. Lower margins on the MTN program offset some of these improvements. The Company recorded net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items during 2005 compared to net realized losses in 2004 primarily due to a significant decline in impairment charges driven by a generally improved credit environment. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items from continuing operations by source for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2005 2004 Total realized gains on sales, net of hedging losses $ 98.5 $ 100.9 Total realized losses on sales, net of hedging gains (28.7 ) (29.9 ) Total other-than-temporary and other investment impairments (41.2 ) (103.3 ) Credit default swaps (7.5 ) 0.3 Periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives 1.0 6.5 Other derivatives 1.2 (5.1 ) Trading portfolio valuation gain 0.4 0.8 Total realized gains (losses) before adjustments 23.7 (29.8 ) Amounts credited to policyholder dividend obligation (5.2 ) (7.0 ) Other 2.3 4.6 Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items $ 20.8 $ (32.2 ) The following table summarizes for the year ended December 31, 2006 the Company’s largest aggregate losses on sales and write-downs by issuer, the related circumstances giving rise to the losses and the circumstances that may have affected other material investments held: Fair valueat sale(proceeds) YTDloss onsale YTDwrite-downs December 31, 2006 (in millions) Holdings1 Netunrealized gain A global service company that provides financial guarantee products and specialized financial services to public finance and structured finance clients. $ 20.3 $ (7.6 ) $ — $ — $ — U.S. government agency securities that were sold at a loss in 2006. No impairment is necessary on the remaining holdings. 224.2 (4.9 ) — 564.5 43.9 U.S. government securities that were sold at a loss in 2006. No impairment is necessary on the remaining holdings. 202.9 (2.7 ) — 179.0 10.1 A global service company that provides electronic commerce and payment services for businesses and consumers. The securities were sold during 2006. 48.0 (2.3 ) — — — A global service company that designs, manufactures and distributes permanent merchandising systems and point-of-purchase displays for leading consumer branded cosmetics companies and mass market retailers. No impairment is necessary on the remaining holdings. 1.0 — (3.7 ) 1.4 — Total $ 496.4 $ (17.5 ) $ (3.7 ) $ 744.9 $ 54.0 1 Holdings represent amortized cost of fixed maturity securities and cost of equity securities as of the date indicated. No other issuer had aggregate losses on sales and write-downs greater than 2.0% of the Company’s total gross losses on sales and write-downs on fixed maturity and equity securities. 59 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources demonstrate the overall financial strength of the Company and its ability to generate cash flows from its operations and borrow funds at competitive rates to meet operating and growth needs. The Company’s capital structure consists of long-term debt and shareholders’ equity. The following table summarizes the Company’s capital structure as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Long-term debt $ 1,398.5 $ 1,398.0 $ 1,406.0 Shareholders’ equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 5,506.4 5,249.7 4,782.9 Accumulated other comprehensive income 31.9 100.7 432.2 Total shareholders’ equity 5,538.3 5,350.4 5,215.1 Total capital $ 6,936.8 $ 6,748.4 $ 6,621.1 NFS is a holding company whose principal assets are the common stock of NLIC and NLICA. The principal sources of funds for NFS to pay interest, dividends and operating expenses are existing cash and investments and dividends from NLIC, NLICA and other subsidiaries. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Regulation of Dividends and Other Payments from Insurance Companies for a description of NLIC and NLICA dividend limitations. NFS currently does not expect such regulatory requirements to impair the ability of its insurance subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends in order for NFS to have the necessary funds available to meet its obligations. A primary liquidity concern with respect to annuity and life insurance products is the risk of early policyholder withdrawal. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by offering variable products where the investment risk is transferred to the policyholder, charging surrender fees at the time of withdrawal for certain products, applying a market value adjustment to withdrawals for certain products in the Company’s general account, and monitoring and matching anticipated cash inflows and outflows. For individual annuity products ($50.34 billion and $48.84 billion of reserves as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively), the surrender charge is generally calculated as a percentage of the deposits made and is assessed at declining rates during the first seven years after a deposit is made. For group annuity products ($25.36 billion and $25.57 billion of reserves as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively), the surrender charge amounts and periods can vary significantly, depending on the terms of each contract and the compensation structure for the producer. Generally, surrender charge percentages for group products are less than individual products because the Company incurs lower expenses at contract origination for group products. In addition, over ninety percent of the general account group annuity reserves are subject to a market value adjustment at withdrawal. Life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than annuity products because policyholders generally must undergo a new underwriting process and may incur a surrender fee in order to obtain a new insurance policy. The short-term and long-term liquidity requirements of the Company are monitored regularly to match cash inflows with cash requirements. The Company reviews its short-term and long-term projected sources and uses of funds and the asset/liability, investment and cash flow assumptions underlying these projections. The Company periodically makes adjustments to its investment policies to reflect changes in short-term and long-term cash needs and changing business and economic conditions. Given the Company’s historical cash flow and current financial results, management of the Company believes that the cash flow from the operating activities of the Company over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for the operations of the Company and will provide sufficient funds to enable the Company to make dividend and interest payments. 60 Table of Contents The Company has additional financing capacity under a shelf registration statement dated March 31, 2006. Under the shelf registration statement, NFS can offer various security instruments including, but not limited to, unsecured senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, Class A common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts or stock purchase units. In conjunction with owned trusts, capital securities guaranteed by NFS also may be issued. See Part II, Item 5—Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for a description of the Company’s stock repurchase program and its impact on liquidity. Short-Term Debt The Company has available as a source of funds a $1.00 billion revolving variable rate credit facility entered into by NFS, NLIC and NMIC with a group of national financial institutions. The facility provides for several and not joint liability with respect to any amount drawn by any party. The facility provides covenants, including, but not limited to, requirements that the Company maintain consolidated tangible net worth, as defined, in excess of $2.60 billion and that NLIC maintain statutory surplus, as defined, in excess of $1.67 billion. As of December 31, 2006, the Company and NLIC were in compliance with all covenants. The Company had no amounts outstanding under this agreement as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. NLIC also has an $800.0 million commercial paper program and is required to maintain an available credit facility equal to 50% of any amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. Therefore, borrowing capacity under the aggregate $1.00 billion revolving credit facility is reduced by 50% of any amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. NLIC had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2006 and $134.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2005 at a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.22%. In addition, the Company has a majority-owned subsidiary that has available an annually renewable, 364-day, $10.0 million variable rate line of credit agreement with a single financial institution. The line of credit is guaranteed by NFS and is included in the consolidated balance sheets. The majority-owned subsidiary had $10.0 million outstanding on that line of credit as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 at a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.29% in 2006 and 4.35% in 2005. The Company also has a wholly-owned subsidiary with a five-year letter of credit issuance agreement with a single financial institution to provide up to $25.0 million in letters of credit. The agreement was effective September 30, 2006 and is guaranteed by NFS. The wholly-owned subsidiary had issued $24.7 million in letters of credit from this facility as of December 31, 2006. NLIC has entered into an agreement with its custodial bank to borrow against the cash collateral that is posted in connection with its securities lending program. This is an uncommitted facility contingent on the liquidity of the securities lending program. The borrowing facility was established to fund commercial mortgage loans that were originated with the intent of sale through securitization. The maximum amount available under the agreement is $350.0 million. The borrowing rate on this program is equal to one-month U.S. London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). NLIC had $75.2 million and $75.0 million outstanding under this agreement as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had not provided any guarantees on such borrowings, either directly or indirectly. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt primarily is comprised of (1) three separate issuances of $300.0 million in principal amount of senior notes and two separate issuances of $200.0 million in principal amount of senior notes, none of which is subject to any sinking fund payments, and (2) a single issuance of $100.0 million in principal amount of junior subordinated debentures that are due March 1, 2037 and pay a distribution rate of 7.899%, issued to an unconsolidated subsidiary trust. 61 Table of Contents The $300.0 million principal of 8.00% senior notes due March 1, 2027 were issued in March 1997 and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time on or after March 1, 2007 at scheduled redemption premiums through March 1, 2016, and, thereafter, at 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest. The $300.0 million principal of 6.25% senior notes due November 15, 2011 were issued in November 2001 and are not redeemable prior to their maturity date. The $300.0 million principal of 5.90% senior notes due July 1, 2012, issued in June 2002, and the $200.0 million principal of 5.625% senior notes due February 13, 2015, issued in February 2003, are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at a prevailing U.S. Treasury rate plus 20 basis points, together in each case with accrued interest payments to the redemption date. The $200.0 million principal of 5.10% senior notes due October 1, 2015 were issued in September 2005 and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at a prevailing U.S. Treasury rate plus 15 basis points, together in each case with accrued interest payments to the redemption date. The terms of each series of senior notes contain various restrictive business and financial covenants, including limitations on the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. On March 11, 1997, Nationwide Financial Services Capital Trust I (Trust I) sold, in a public offering, $100.0 million principal of 7.899% capital securities, representing preferred undivided beneficial interests in the assets of Trust I. This sale generated net proceeds of $98.3 million. Concurrent with the sale of the capital securities, NFS sold to Trust I $103.1 million principal of its 7.899% junior subordinated debentures due March 1, 2037. The junior subordinated debentures are the sole assets of Trust I and are redeemable by NFS in whole at any time or in part from time to time at par plus an applicable make-whole premium. The related capital securities will mature or be called simultaneously with the junior subordinated debentures and have a liquidation value of $1,000 per capital security. The capital securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NFS, and there are no related sinking fund requirements. Distributions on the capital securities are cumulative and payable semi-annually in arrears. Guarantees See Note 19 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a description of the potential impact on liquidity of the Company’s guarantees. 62 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2006 expected to be paid in the periods presented. Payment amounts reflect the Company’s estimate of undiscounted cash flows related to these obligations and commitments. Balance sheet amounts were determined in accordance with GAAP and in many cases differ significantly from the summation of undiscounted cash flows. The most significant difference relates to future policy benefits related to life and health insurance, which include discounting. Payments due by period Amountper balancesheet (in millions) Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Debt: Short-term1 $ 92.9 $ — $ — $ — 92.9 $ 85.2 Long-term2: Unrelated parties 81.9 163.8 179.4 1,769.6 2,194.7 1,295.4 Related parties 8.1 16.2 16.2 308.0 348.5 103.1 Subtotal 182.9 180.0 195.6 2,077.6 2,636.1 1,483.7 Lease and license obligations3: Operating leases 22.4 39.9 26.1 47.1 135.5 — Capital leases 0.2 — — — 0.2 — License 10.3 23.8 17.1 0.7 51.9 — Subtotal 32.9 63.7 43.2 47.8 187.6 — Purchase and lending commitments: Fixed maturity securities4 53.9 — — — 53.9 — Commercial mortgage loans4 137.7 1.8 — — 139.5 — Limited partnerships5 188.7 — — — 188.7 — Subtotal 380.3 1.8 — — 382.1 — Future policy benefits and claims6: Fixed annuities and fixed option of variable annuities7 2,145.3 2,941.7 2,170.5 5,456.3 12,713.8 11,846.9 Life and health insurance7 727.3 1,696.0 1,231.2 12,492.7 16,147.2 8,148.8 Single premium immediate annuities8 249.5 463.6 398.1 1,883.4 2,994.6 1,906.5 Group pension deferred fixed annuities9 1,496.2 2,621.2 2,154.5 8,844.4 15,116.3 11,163.2 Funding agreements backing MTNs2, 10 2,167.0 1,987.8 915.4 297.9 5,368.1 5,032.4 Subtotal 6,785.3 9,710.3 6,869.7 28,974.7 52,340.0 38,097.8 Cash and securities collateral11: Cash collateral on securities lending 886.7 — — — 886.7 886.7 Cash collateral on derivative transactions 171.0 — — — 171.0 171.0 Securities collateral on securities lending 859.9 — — — 859.9 859.9 Securities collateral on derivative transactions 12.8 — — — 12.8 12.8 Subtotal 1,930.4 — — — 1,930.4 1,930.4 Total $ 9,311.8 $ 9,955.8 $ 7,108.5 $ 31,100.1 $ 57,476.2 $ 41,511.9 1 No contractual provisions exist that could create, increase or accelerate those obligations presented. The amount presented includes contractual principal and interest based on rates in effect at December 31, 2006. 63 Table of Contents 2 Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those obligations presented. The amounts presented include contractual principal and interest based on stated rates in effect at December 31, 2006. 3 Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 4 No contractual provisions exist that could create, accelerate or materially increase those obligations presented. 5 Primarily related to investments in low-income-housing tax credit partnerships. Call dates for the obligations presented are either date or event specific. The date specific requirement mandates the Company fund a specified amount on a stated date provided there are no defaults under the agreement. The event specific requirement is such that the Company is obligated to fund a specified amount of its capital commitment when all the properties in a fund become fully stabilized. The ultimate call date of these commitments may extend beyond one year but have been reflected in payments due in less than one year due to the call features. The Company’s capital typically is called within one to four years, depending on when the events contemplated in the documents transpire. 6 A significant portion of policy contract benefits and claims to be paid do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any ultimate payment obligation. Amounts reported herein represent estimated undiscounted cash flows out of the Company’s general account related to death, surrender, annuity and other benefit payments under policy contracts in force at December 31, 2006. Separate account payments are not reflected herein due to the matched nature of these obligations and because the contract owners maintain the investment risk of such deposits. Estimated payment amounts reported herein were developed based on review of historical results experienced by the Company and the related contractual provisions. Significant assumptions incorporated in the reported amounts include: future policy lapse rates (including the impact of customer decisions to make future premium payments to keep the related policies in force), coverage levels remaining unchanged from those provided under contracts in force at December 31, 2006, future interest crediting rates, and the estimated timing of payments. Actual amounts will vary, potentially by a significant amount, from the amounts indicated due to deviations between assumptions and actual results and the addition of new business in future periods. 7 Contractual provisions exist which could adjust the amount and/or timing of those obligations reported. Key assumptions related to payments due by period include customer lapse and withdrawal rates (including timing of death), exchanges to and from the fixed and separate accounts of the variable annuities, claims experience with respect to variable annuity guarantees, and future interest crediting level. Assumptions for future interest crediting levels have been made based on processes consistent with the Company’s past practices, which is at the discretion of the Company, subject to guaranteed minimum crediting rates in many cases and/or subject to contractually obligated increases for specified periods of time. Many of the contracts with potentially accelerated timing of payments are subject to surrender charges which are generally calculated as a percentage of deposits made and are assessed at declining rates during the first seven years after a deposit is made. Amounts disclosed herein include an estimate of those accelerated payments, net of applicable surrender charges. See Note 2(j) to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for a description of the Company’s method for establishing life and annuity reserves in accordance with GAAP. Health reserves are immaterial and are reflected in the less than one-year column. 8 Certain assumptions have been made about mortality experience and retirement patterns in the amounts reported. Actual deaths and retirements may differ significantly from those projected, which could cause the timing of the obligations reported to vary significantly. In addition, contractual surrender provisions exist on an immaterial portion of these contracts that could accelerate those obligations presented. The amounts disclosed herein do not include an estimate of those accelerated payments. Most of the contracts with potentially accelerated timing of payments are subject to surrender charges which are generally calculated as a percentage of the commuted value of the remaining term certain benefit payments and are assessed at declining rates during the first seven policy years. 9 Contractual provisions exist that could increase those obligations presented. In developing the estimates of payments due by period, the process for determining future interest crediting rates as described in note 7 above was followed. 64 Table of Contents 10 See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Off-Balance Sheet Transactions for a detailed discussion of the Company’s MTN program. The amounts presented include contractual principal and interest based on rates in effect at December 31, 2006. 11 Since the timing of the return of collateral is uncertain, these obligations have been reflected in payments due in less than one year. See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Investments—General for a detailed discussion of the impact of collateral on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions Under the MTN program, NLIC issues funding agreements to an unconsolidated third party trust to secure notes issued to investors by the trust. The funding agreements rank pari passu with all other insurance claims of the issuing company in the event of liquidation and should be treated as “annuities” under applicable Ohio insurance law. Therefore, the funding agreement obligations are classified as a component of future policy benefits and claims on the consolidated balance sheets. Because the Company is not the primary beneficiary of, and has no ownership interest in, or control over, the third party trust that issues the MTNs, the Company does not include the trust in its consolidated financial statements. Since the notes issued by the trust have a secured interest in the funding agreements issued by the Company, Moody’s and S&P assign the same ratings to the notes and the insurance financial strength of NLIC. Investments General The Company’s assets are divided between separate account and general account assets. As of December 31, 2006, $70.69 billion (59%) of the Company’s total assets were held in separate accounts ($65.96 billion, or 57%, as of December 31, 2005) and $48.72 billion (41%) were held in the Company’s general account ($50.20 billion, or 43%, as of December 31, 2005), including $41.20 billion of general account investments ($43.17 billion as of December 31, 2005). Separate account assets consist primarily of deposits from the Company’s variable annuity and variable life insurance business. Most separate account assets are invested in various mutual funds. All of the investment performance in the Company’s separate account assets is passed through to the Company’s customers. See Note 6 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for further information regarding the Company’s investments. The Company, through its agent, lends certain portfolio holdings and in turn receives cash collateral. The cash collateral is invested in high-quality short-term investments. The Company’s policy requires a minimum of 102% of the fair value of the securities loaned to be maintained as collateral. Net returns on the investments, after payment of a rebate to the borrower, are shared between the Company and its agent. Both the borrower and the Company can request or return the loaned securities at any time. The Company maintains ownership of the securities at all times and is entitled to receive from the borrower any payments for interest or dividends received on such securities during the loan term. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had received $886.7 million and $1.17 billion, respectively, of cash collateral on securities lending and $171.0 million and $203.3 million, respectively, of cash for derivative collateral. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had not received any non-cash collateral on securities lending compared to $5.9 million as of December 31, 2005. Both the cash and non-cash collateral amounts are included in short-term investments with a corresponding liability recorded in other liabilities. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had loaned securities with a fair value of $859.9 million and $1.14 billion, respectively. The Company also held $12.8 million and $53.2 million of securities as off-balance sheet collateral on derivative transactions as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 65 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Company’s consolidated general account investments by asset category as of December 31: 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) Carryingvalue % oftotal Carryingvalue % oftotal Fixed maturity securities $ 28,160.0 68.3 $ 30,106.0 69.7 Equity securities 67.6 0.2 75.6 0.2 Trading assets 24.3 0.1 34.4 0.1 Mortgage loans on real estate, net 8,909.8 21.6 9,148.6 21.2 Real estate, net 76.7 0.2 108.7 0.3 Policy loans 966.9 2.3 930.6 2.1 Other long-term investments 780.1 1.9 691.9 1.6 Short-term investments 2,215.6 5.4 2,073.2 4.8 Total $ 41,201.0 100.0 $ 43,169.0 100.0 The following table lists the ten largest fixed maturity investment holdings by amortized cost for both investment grade and non-investment grade securities included in the general account as of December 31, 2006 (excluding U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. Government corporations, and agency bonds not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government): (in millions) PredominantRating Amortized Cost PredominantRating Amortized Cost Investment Grade Non-Investment Grade Bear Stearns Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc. AA+ $ 177.1 Ford Motor Company B $ 60.0 CS First Boston Mortgage Securities Corporation AAA 175.5 General Motors Corporation B- 46.5 Countrywide Alternative Loan Trust AAA 174.9 Deluxe Corporation BB- 42.7 Morgan Stanley Capital I AAA 146.2 Knight-Ridder, Inc. BB+ 39.7 Structured Asset Securities Corporation AAA 134.7 Northwest Airlines, Inc. BB 38.3 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Capital I AA+ 127.3 Scholastic Corporation BB 37.9 HSBC Holdings PLC AA- 115.5 NRG Energy, Inc. BB- 25.9 Bank of America Corporation AA- 114.9 Edison International BB+ 25.4 LB-UBS Commercial Mortgage Trust AA+ 104.8 Avis Europe, PLC BB 25.0 Regions Financial Corporation A 95.7 MGM Mirage BB 21.6 66 Table of Contents Securities Available-for-Sale The following table summarizes the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and estimated fair values of securities available-for-sale as of the dates indicated: (in millions) Amortizedcost Grossunrealizedgains Grossunrealizedlosses Estimatedfair value December 31, 2006: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations $ 179.0 $ 12.2 $ 2.1 $ 189.1 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 564.5 46.2 2.3 608.4 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 274.7 0.7 7.4 268.0 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 36.2 1.7 0.2 37.7 Corporate securities Public 9,732.8 220.0 127.4 9,825.4 Private 6,605.1 131.5 83.8 6,652.8 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 6,946.0 23.8 122.8 6,847.0 Asset-backed securities 3,728.9 45.5 42.8 3,731.6 Total fixed maturity securities 28,067.2 481.6 388.8 28,160.0 Equity securities 57.2 11.0 0.6 67.6 Total securities available-for-sale $ 28,124.4 $ 492.6 $ 389.4 $ 28,227.6 December 31, 2005: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies $ 197.1 $ 14.4 $ 1.2 $ 210.3 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 882.3 61.2 6.7 936.8 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 314.5 2.4 3.9 313.0 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 42.7 2.7 0.1 45.3 Corporate securities Public 10,728.5 302.0 122.0 10,908.5 Private 7,199.3 200.7 77.5 7,322.5 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 6,824.7 21.3 117.0 6,729.0 Asset-backed securities 3,641.7 44.2 45.3 3,640.6 Total fixed maturity securities 29,830.8 648.9 373.7 30,106.0 Equity securities 64.8 11.2 0.4 75.6 Total securities available-for-sale $ 29,895.6 $ 660.1 $ 374.1 $ 30,181.6 The average duration and average maturity of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2006 were approximately 4.4 years and 5.9 years, respectively, compared to 4.5 years and 6.1 years, respectively, at December 31, 2005. The market value of the Company’s general account investments may fluctuate significantly in response to changes in interest rates. In addition, the Company may be likely to experience realized investment losses to the extent its liquidity needs require the disposition of general account fixed maturity securities in unfavorable interest rate environments. 67 Table of Contents The following table summarizes by time the gross unrealized losses on securities available-for-sale in an unrealized loss position as of the dates indicated: Less than or equal to one year More Than one year Total (in millions) Estimatedfair value Grossunrealizedlosses Estimated fair value Grossunrealizedlosses Estimatedfair value Grossunrealizedlosses December 31, 2006: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations $ 66.5 $ 1.0 $ 29.9 $ 1.1 $ 96.4 $ 2.1 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 31.7 0.1 125.2 2.2 156.9 2.3 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 84.5 1.0 161.9 6.4 246.4 7.4 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 12.8 0.1 1.3 0.1 14.1 0.2 Corporate securities Public 2,627.7 27.8 3,525.8 99.6 6,153.5 127.4 Private 1,288.6 15.0 2,165.1 68.8 3,453.7 83.8 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 966.9 7.6 4,194.0 115.2 5,160.9 122.8 Asset-backed securities 580.2 4.5 1,475.0 38.3 2,055.2 42.8 Total fixed maturity securities 5,658.9 57.1 11,678.2 331.7 17,337.1 388.8 Equity securities 17.6 0.3 3.4 0.3 21.0 0.6 Total $ 5,676.5 $ 57.4 $ 11,681.6 $ 332.0 $ 17,358.1 $ 389.4 % of gross unrealized losses 15 % 85 % December 31, 2005: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies $ 37.4 $ 0.8 $ 11.6 $ 0.4 $ 49.0 $ 1.2 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 329.2 5.4 42.2 1.3 371.4 6.7 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 157.8 3.1 29.7 0.8 187.5 3.9 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 8.6 0.1 — — 8.6 0.1 Corporate securities Public 3,731.0 73.4 1,247.0 48.6 4,978.0 122.0 Private 1,957.3 46.5 767.7 31.0 2,725.0 77.5 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 4,526.2 96.0 702.9 21.0 5,229.1 117.0 Asset-backed securities 1,516.4 28.2 490.2 17.1 2,006.6 45.3 Total fixed maturity securities 12,263.9 253.5 3,291.3 120.2 15,555.2 373.7 Equity securities 20.8 0.4 — — 20.8 0.4 Total $ 12,284.7 $ 253.9 $ 3,291.3 $ 120.2 $ 15,576.0 $ 374.1 % of gross unrealized losses 68 % 32 % Increases in unrealized losses more than one year are primarily due to changes in the interest rate environment. Those securities are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired because the decline in market value is attributed to changes in interest rates and not credit quality, and because the Company has the ability and intent to hold those investments until recovery. 68 Table of Contents The NAIC assigns securities quality ratings and uniform valuations (called NAIC Designations), which are used by insurers when preparing their annual statements. The NAIC assigns designations to publicly traded and privately placed securities. The designations assigned by the NAIC range from class 1 (highest quality) to class 6 (lowest quality). Of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities, 94% were in the two highest NAIC Designations as of December 31, 2006 compared to 94% as of December 31, 2005. The following table summarizes the credit quality, as determined by NAIC Designation, of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities portfolio as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 NAIC designation1 Rating agency equivalent designation2 Amortizedcost Estimatedfair value Amortizedcost Estimated fair value 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 19,362.3 $ 19,351.3 $ 19,945.0 $ 20,053.4 2 Baa 6,928.8 6,997.2 8,105.1 8,247.9 3 Ba 1,091.5 1,101.6 1,090.0 1,096.7 4 B 647.8 659.8 546.1 549.2 5 Caa and lower 18.5 27.3 53.3 60.5 6 In or near default 18.3 22.8 91.3 98.3 Total $ 28,067.2 $ 28,160.0 $ 29,830.8 $ 30,106.0 1 NAIC Designations are assigned at least annually. Some designations for securities shown have been assigned to securities not yet assigned an NAIC Designation in a manner approximating equivalent public rating categories. 2 Comparisons between NAIC and Moody’s designations are published by the NAIC. If no Moody’s rating is available, the Company assigns internal ratings corresponding to public ratings. Mortgage-Backed Securities The Company’s general account MBS portfolio is comprised of residential MBS investments. As of December 31, 2006, MBS investments totaled $6.85 billion (24%) of the carrying value of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities available-for-sale compared to $6.73 billion (22%) as of December 31, 2005. The Company believes that MBS investments add diversification, liquidity, credit quality and additional yield to its general account portfolio. The Company’s objective for its MBS portfolio is to provide reasonable cash flow stability and increased yield. The MBS portfolio includes CMOs, Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (REMICs) and mortgage-backed pass-through securities. The Company’s general account MBS portfolio generally does not include interest-only securities, principal-only securities or other MBS investments which may exhibit extreme market volatility. Prepayment/extension risk is an inherent risk of holding MBSs. However, the degree of prepayment/extension risk varies by the type of MBS held. The Company limits its exposure to prepayments/extensions by holding less volatile types of MBSs. As of December 31, 2006, $2.36 billion (34%) of the carrying value of the general account MBS portfolio was invested in planned amortization class CMOs/REMICs (PACs) compared to $2.43 billion (36%) as of December 31, 2005. PACs are securities whose cash flows are designed to remain constant in a variety of mortgage prepayment environments. Most of the Company’s non-PAC MBSs possess varying degrees of cash flow structure and prepayment/extension risk. The MBS portfolio contained 5% and 4% of pure pass-throughs as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 69 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the distribution by investment type of the Company’s general account MBS portfolio as of December 31: 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) Estimatedfair value % oftotal Estimatedfair value % oftotal Planned amortization class $ 2,362.9 34.4 $ 2,434.4 36.2 Sequential 1,539.7 22.5 1,578.4 23.5 Non-accelerating securities—CMO 1,532.7 22.4 1,431.7 21.3 Very accurately defined maturity 784.6 11.5 823.8 12.2 Multi-family mortgage pass-through certificates 367.5 5.4 244.7 3.6 Accrual 116.8 1.7 160.2 2.4 Other 142.8 2.1 55.8 0.8 Total $ 6,847.0 100.0 $ 6,729.0 100.0 Asset-Backed Securities The Company’s general account asset-backed securities (ABS) portfolio includes home equity and credit card-backed ABS investments, among others. As of December 31, 2006, ABS investments totaled $3.73 billion (13%) of the carrying value of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities available-for-sale compared to $3.64 billion (12%) as of December 31, 2005. The Company believes that general account ABS investments add diversification, liquidity, credit quality and additional yield to its general account portfolio. Like the MBS portfolio, the Company’s objective for its ABS portfolio is to provide reasonable cash flow stability and increased yield. The Company’s general account ABS portfolio generally does not include interest-only securities, principal-only securities or other ABS investments which may exhibit extreme market volatility. The following table summarizes the distribution by investment type of the Company’s general account ABS portfolio as of December 31: 2006 2005 (dollars in millions) Estimatedfair value % oftotal Estimatedfair value % oftotal Commercial mortgage-backed securities $ 1,245.8 33.5 $ 860.8 23.6 Home equity/improvement 750.8 20.1 884.5 24.3 Credit card-backed 398.1 10.7 484.2 13.3 Trust preferred—residual income 326.5 8.7 210.6 5.8 CBO/CLO/CDO 225.6 6.0 264.4 7.3 Non-accelerated securities 189.6 5.1 205.4 5.6 Enhanced equity/equity trust certificates 146.9 3.9 170.0 4.7 Pass-through certificate 110.0 2.9 132.4 3.6 Student loans 84.5 2.3 89.5 2.5 Franchise/business loan 57.8 1.5 80.3 2.2 Other 196.0 5.3 258.5 7.1 Total $ 3,731.6 100.0 $ 3,640.6 100.0 Private Placement Fixed Maturity Securities The Company invests in private placement fixed maturity securities because of the generally higher nominal yield available compared to comparably rated public fixed maturity securities, more restrictive financial and 70 Table of Contents business covenants available in private fixed maturity security loan agreements and stronger prepayment protection. Although private placement fixed maturity securities are not registered with the SEC and generally are less liquid than public fixed maturity securities, restrictive financial and business covenants included in private placement fixed maturity security loan agreements generally are designed to compensate for the impact of increased liquidity risk. A significant portion of the private placement fixed maturity securities that the Company holds are participations in issues that are also owned by other investors. In addition, some of these securities are rated by nationally recognized rating agencies, and substantially all have been assigned a rating designation by the NAIC, as shown in the earlier table summarizing the credit quality of the Company’s general account fixed maturity securities portfolio. Mortgage Loans As of December 31, 2006, general account mortgage loans were $8.91 billion (22%) of the carrying value of consolidated general account investments compared to $9.15 billion (21%) as of December 31, 2005. Substantially all of these loans were commercial mortgage loans. Commitments to fund mortgage loans of $139.5 million were outstanding as of December 31, 2006 compared to $293.7 million as of December 31, 2005. The table below summarizes the carrying values of mortgage loans by regional exposure and type of collateral as of December 31, 2006: (in millions) Office Warehouse Retail Apartment& Other Total New England $ 176.4 $ 15.3 $ 99.6 $ 84.2 $ 375.5 Middle Atlantic 196.3 328.4 359.2 186.0 1,069.9 East North Central 97.4 245.9 614.4 513.4 1,471.1 West North Central 40.2 90.2 65.9 138.3 334.6 South Atlantic 203.7 489.5 886.4 667.5 2,247.1 East South Central 34.6 58.0 127.8 164.1 384.5 West South Central 52.9 151.6 177.6 232.4 614.5 Mountain 114.7 136.8 206.4 354.9 812.8 Pacific 346.1 431.1 468.8 366.9 1,612.9 Total principal $ 1,262.3 $ 1,946.8 $ 3,006.1 $ 2,707.7 8,922.9 Valuation allowance (36.0 ) Unamortized premium 17.8 Cumulative change in fair value of hedged mortgage loans and commitments 5.1 Total mortgage loans on real estate, net $ 8,909.8 As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s largest exposure to any single borrowing group was $886.4 million, or 10%, of the Company’s general account mortgage loan portfolio compared to $844.3 million, or 9%, as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s mortgage loans classified as delinquent, foreclosed and restructured were immaterial as a percentage of the total mortgage loan portfolio. 71 Table of Contents ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk Sensitive Financial Instruments The Company is subject to potential fluctuations in earnings and the fair value of certain of its assets and liabilities, as well as variations in expected cash flows due to changes in market interest rates and equity prices. The following discussion focuses on specific interest rate, foreign currency and equity price risks to which the Company is exposed and describes strategies used to attempt to manage these risks. The discussion is limited to financial instruments subject to market risks and is not intended to be a complete discussion of all of the risks to which the Company is exposed. Interest Rate Risk Fluctuations in interest rates can impact the Company’s earnings, cash flows and the fair value of its assets and liabilities. In a declining interest rate environment, the Company may be required to reinvest the proceeds from maturing and prepaying investments at rates lower than the overall yield of the portfolio, which could reduce future interest spread income. In addition, minimum guaranteed crediting rates (ranging from 1.5% to 3.5% for a majority of the individual annuity contracts in force) on certain individual annuity contracts could prevent the Company from lowering its interest crediting rates to levels commensurate with prevailing market interest rates, resulting in a reduction to the Company’s interest spread income in the event market interest rates remain at, or decline from, December 31, 2006 levels. The average crediting rate for fixed annuity products during 2006 was 3.76% and 4.07% for the Individual Investments and Retirement Plans segments, respectively (compared to 3.69% and 4.18%, respectively, during 2005), well in excess of the guaranteed rates. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by managing the maturity and interest-rate sensitivities of the assets to be consistent with those of the liabilities. In recent periods, management has taken actions to address low interest rate environments and the resulting impact on interest spread margins, including reducing commissions on fixed annuity sales, launching new products with new guaranteed rates, discontinuing the sale of its leading annual reset fixed annuities and invoking contractual provisions that limit the amount of variable annuity deposits allocated to the guaranteed fixed option. In addition, the Company adheres to a strict discipline of setting interest crediting rates on new business at levels adequate to provide returns consistent with management expectations. Conversely, a rising interest rate environment could result in a reduction in interest spread income or an increase in policyholder surrenders. Existing general account investments supporting annuity liabilities had a weighted average maturity of approximately 5.8 years as of December 31, 2006. Therefore, the change in yield of the portfolio will lag changes in market interest rates. This lag increases if the rate of prepayments of securities slows. To the extent the Company sets renewal rates based on current market rates, this will result in reduced interest spreads. Alternatively, if the Company sets renewal crediting rates while attempting to maintain a desired spread from the portfolio yield, the rates offered by the Company may be less than new money rates offered by competitors. This difference could result in an increase in surrender activity by policyholders. If the Company was unable to fund surrenders with its cash flow from operations, the Company might need to sell assets, which likely would have declined in value due to the increase in interest rates. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by offering products that assess surrender charges and/or market value adjustments at the time of surrender, and by managing the maturity and interest-rate sensitivities of the assets to approximate those of the liabilities. Asset/Liability Management Strategies to Manage Interest Rate Risk The Company employs an asset/liability management approach tailored to the specific requirements of each of its products. Each line of business has an investment policy based on its specific characteristics. The policy establishes asset maturity and duration, quality and other relevant guidelines. An underlying pool or pools of investments, including combinations of dedicated and common asset pools, support each general account line of business. Dedicated pools of assets have been created for certain liabilities 72 Table of Contents or groups of liabilities within most lines and represent the majority of the pools. These pools consist of whole assets purchased specifically for the underlying line of business. In general, assets placed in any given portfolio remain there until they mature (or are called), but active management of specific securities, sectors and several top-down risks may result in portfolio turnover or transfers among the various portfolios. The common asset pools are generally maintained on the basis of the desired maturity characteristics of the assets used (e.g., 4 to 7 years weighted average life). The various lines of business are given “ownership” percentages of assets acquired by the pools depending on their contribution to the amounts purchased in the pools, in a manner analogous to investment year allocations. This methodology is sometimes referred to as synthetic segmentation. Investment strategies are executed by dedicated investment professionals based on the guidance established for the various pools. To assist them in this regard, they receive periodic projections of investment needs from each line’s management team. Line of business management teams, investment portfolio managers and finance professionals periodically evaluate how well assets purchased and the underlying portfolio match the underlying liabilities for each line. Strategy adjustments are made when needed. Using this information, in conjunction with each line’s investment strategy, actual asset purchases or commitments are made. In addition, plans for future asset purchases are formulated when appropriate. This process is repeated frequently enough so that invested assets for each line match its investment needs as closely as possible. The primary objectives are to ensure that each line’s liabilities are invested in accordance with its investment strategy and that over or under investment is minimized. As part of this process, the investment portfolio managers provide each line’s actuaries with forecasts of anticipated rates that the line’s future investments are expected to produce. This information, in combination with yields attributable to the line’s current investments and its investment “rollovers,” gives the line actuaries data to use in computing and declaring interest crediting rates for their lines of business in conjunction with management approval. There are two approaches to developing investment policies: • For liabilities where cash flows are not interest sensitive and the credited rate is fixed (e.g., immediate annuities), the Company attempts to manage risk with a combination cash matching/duration matching strategy. Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of price to changes in interest rates. For a rate movement of 100 basis points, the fair value of liabilities with a duration of 5 years would change by approximately 5%. For this type of liability, the Company generally targets an asset/liability duration mismatch of -0.25 to +0.50 years. In addition, the Company attempts to minimize asset and liability cash flow mismatches, especially over the first five years. However, the desired degree of cash matching is balanced against the cost of cash matching. • For liabilities where the Company has the right to modify the credited rate and policyholders also have options, the Company’s risk management process includes modeling both the assets and liabilities over multiple stochastic scenarios. The Company considers a range of potential policyholder behavior as well as the specific liability crediting strategy. This analysis, combined with appropriate risk tolerances, drives the Company’s investment policy. Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk The Company periodically purchases fixed rate investments to back variable rate liabilities. As a result, the Company can be exposed to interest rate risk due to the mismatch between variable rate liabilities and fixed rate assets. In an effort to mitigate this risk, the Company enters into various types of derivative instruments to minimize this mismatch, with fluctuations in the fair values of the derivatives offsetting changes in the fair values of the investments resulting from changes in interest rates. The Company principally uses pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swaps to manage this risk. Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives variable interest rate payments and makes fixed rate payments. The fixed interest paid on the swap offsets the fixed interest received on the investment, resulting in 73 Table of Contents the Company receiving the variable interest payments on the swap, generally 3-month U.S. LIBOR, and the credit spread on the investment. The net receipt of a variable rate will then match the variable rate paid on the liability. As a result of entering into commercial mortgage loan and private placement commitments, the Company is exposed to changes in the fair value of such commitments due to changes in interest rates during the commitment period prior to the loans being funded. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company enters into short U.S. Treasury futures during the commitment period. With short U.S. Treasury futures, if interest rates rise/fall, the gains/losses on the futures will offset the change in fair value of the commitment attributable to the change in interest rates. The Company periodically purchases variable rate investments (i.e., commercial mortgage loans and corporate bonds). As a result, the Company can be exposed to variability in cash flows and investment income due to changes in interest rates. Such variability poses risks to the Company when the assets are funded with fixed rate liabilities. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company may enter into receive fixed/pay variable interest rate swaps. In using these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed interest rate payments and makes variable rate payments. The variable interest paid on the swap offsets the variable interest received on the investment, resulting in the Company receiving the fixed interest payments on the swap and the credit spread on the investment. The net receipt of a fixed rate will then match the fixed rate paid on the liability. The Company manages interest rate risk at the segment level. Different segments may simultaneously hedge interest rate risks associated with owning fixed and variable rate investments considering the risk relevant to a particular segment. 74 Table of Contents Characteristics of Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments The table below provides information about the Company’s financial instruments as of December 31, 2006 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Insurance contracts that subject the Company to significant mortality risk, including life insurance contracts and life-contingent immediate annuities, do not meet the definition of a financial instrument and are not included in the table. Estimated year of maturities/repayments 2006 FairValue 2005 FairValue (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 There-after Total Assets Fixed maturity securities: Corporate bonds: Principal $ 2,076.4 $ 2,000.0 $ 1,738.5 $ 1,741.0 $ 2,218.0 $ 6,564.0 $ 16,337.9 $ 16,478.2 $ 18,231.0 Weighted average interest rate 5.92% 5.94% 6.50% 6.06% 6.10% 6.16% 6.12% Mortgage and other asset- backed securities: Principal $ 1,236.8 $ 951.9 $ 841.9 $ 887.9 $ 902.5 $ 5,853.9 $ 10,674.9 $ 10,578.6 $ 10,369.6 Weighted average interest rate 5.69% 5.30% 5.44% 5.42% 5.62% 5.54% 5.52% Other fixed maturity securities: Principal $ 46.7 $ 59.0 $ 77.2 $ 39.6 $ 48.4 $ 783.5 $ 1,054.4 $ 1,103.2 $ 1,505.4 Weighted average interest rate 5.31% 5.22% 5.78% 5.03% 5.06% 6.26% 6.02% Mortgage loans on real estate: Principal $ 217.6 $ 331.2 $ 343.7 $ 498.1 $ 1,083.3 $ 6,078.7 $ 8,552.6 $ 8,821.5 $ 9,181.5 Weighted average interest rate 6.71% 6.02% 6.35% 6.53% 6.47% 6.08% 6.18% Liabilities Individual deferred fixed annuities: Principal $ 2,394.5 $ 1,705.1 $ 1,337.0 $ 1,149.1 $ 1,013.7 $ 4,141.4 $ 11,740.8 $ 10,571.4 $ 12,515.4 Weighted average crediting rate 3.24% 3.14% 3.15% 3.22% 3.29% 3.30% Group pension deferred fixed annuities: Principal $ 1,572.1 $ 1,365.1 $ 1,172.7 $ 1,027.6 $ 837.1 $ 5,188.5 $ 11,163.1 $ 10,978.0 $ 10,880.1 Weighted average crediting rate 4.08% 4.05% 4.04% 4.04% 4.04% 4.05% Funding agreements backing MTNs: Principal $ 2,014.9 $ 1,064.6 $ 775.2 $ 522.2 $ 357.7 $ — $ 4,734.6 $ 4,611.8 $ 3,998.3 Weighted average crediting rate 4.45% 4.44% 4.30% 4.26% 2.59% — Immediate annuities: Principal $ 253.2 $ 225.5 $ 199.1 $ 168.9 $ 144.5 $ 915.4 $ 1,906.6 $ 449.0 $ 432.0 Weighted average crediting rate 6.63% 6.68% 6.72% 6.77% 6.83% 6.88% Short-term debt: Principal $ 85.2 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 85.2 $ 85.2 $ 252.3 Weighted average interest rate 5.32% — — — — — 5.32% Long-term debt: Principal $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,398.5 $ 1,398.5 $ 1,437.5 $ 1,466.5 Weighted average interest rate — — — — — 6.41% 6.41% 75 Table of Contents Estimated year of maturities/repayments 2006 FairValue 2005 FairValue (in millions, except settlement prices) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 There-after Total Derivative Financial Instruments Interest rate swaps: Pay fixed/receive variable: Notional value $ 273.8 $ 413.3 $ 563.4 $ 403.8 $ 841.3 $ 549.5 $ 3,045.1 $ (95.4 ) $ (69.6 ) Weighted average pay rate 4.61% 4.80% 4.96% 4.87% 5.01% 5.16% 4.95% Weighted average receive rate1 5.40% 5.37% 5.37% 5.43% 5.50% 5.45% 5.43% Pay fixed/receive variable, forward starting: Notional value $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 177.9 $ 177.9 $ (0.8 ) $ (0.2 ) Weighted average pay rate — — — — — 5.13% 5.13% Weighted average receive rate — — — — — 5.36% 5.36% Pay variable/receive fixed: Notional value $ 489.4 $ 228.8 $ — $ — $ 253.8 $ 36.5 $ 1,008.5 $ 214.1 $ 280.4 Weighted average pay rate1 5.74% 5.37% — — 5.88% 6.49% 5.72% Weighted average receive rate 4.56% 5.21% — — 6.18% 5.33% 5.14% Pay variable/receive variable: Notional value $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 13.5 Weighted average pay rate1 — — — — — — — Weighted average receive rate1 — — — — — — — Pay fixed/receive fixed: Notional value $ 44.0 $ 16.8 $ 64.1 $ 56.8 $ 67.8 $ 135.5 $ 385.0 $ (46.4 ) $ (42.6 ) Weighted average pay rate 5.98% 5.83% 5.73% 3.56% 5.61% 5.10% 5.20% Weighted average receive rate 3.34% 4.04% 4.16% 4.60% 5.28% 6.10% 5.00% Convertible asset swaps: Notional value $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 0.2 Weighted average pay rate — — — — — — — Weighted average receive rate — — — — — — — Credit default swaps sold: Notional value $ 106.0 $ 115.0 $ 24.5 $ 55.0 $ 16.0 $ 25.0 $ 341.5 $ 2.5 $ 3.0 Weighted average receive rate 1.00% 0.57% 0.59% 0.73% 1.76% 0.40% 0.77% Credit default swaps purchased: Notional value $ 0.5 $ 11.5 $ 0.8 $ — $ 0.5 $ 22.0 $ 35.3 $ (0.2 ) $ — Weighted average pay rate 5.00% 1.10% 5.00% — — 0.56% 0.89% Embedded derivatives: Notional value $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 20.0 $ 20.0 $ 54.5 $ 7.2 Total return swaps2 Notional value $ 75.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — — $ 75.0 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Treasury futures: Short positions: Contract amount/notional value $ 4.4 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 4.4 $ — $ — Weighted average settlement price 106.7 — — — — — 106.7 Long positions: Contract amount/notional value $ 161.6 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 161.6 $ (2.1 ) $ 0.3 Weighted average settlement price 108.8 — — — — — 108.8 Equity futures: Short positions: Contract amount/notional value $ 104.3 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 104.3 $ (0.2 ) $ 1.4 Weighted average settlement price 1,426.4 — — — — — 1,426.4 Long positions: Contract amount/notional value $ 1.3 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1.3 $ — $ — Weighted average settlement price 1,427.1 — — — — — 1,427.1 Option contracts Long positions: Contract amount/notional value $ 88.5 $ 11.2 $ 92.7 $ 218.3 $ 571.1 $ 602.5 $ 1,584.3 $ 70.0 $ 30.8 Weighted average settlement price 1,333.7 972.7 1,068.4 1,124.3 1,035.0 1,128.0 1,100.9 76 Table of Contents 1 Variable rates are generally based on 1, 3 or 6-month U.S. LIBOR and reflect the effective rate as of December 31, 2006. 2 Total return swaps are based on the Lehman CMBS Index. Additional information about the characteristics of the financial instruments and assumptions underlying the data presented in the table above are as follows: Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities: The year of maturity is determined based on the terms of the securities and the current rate of prepayment of the underlying pools of mortgages or assets. The Company limits its exposure to prepayments by purchasing less volatile types of MBS and ABS investments. See Part II, Item 7—MD&A—Investments—Securities Available-for-Sale for further discussion. Corporate bonds and other fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans on real estate: The maturity year is that of the security or loan. Individual deferred fixed annuities: The maturity year is based on the expected date of policyholder withdrawal, taking into account actual experience, current interest rates and contract terms. Individual deferred fixed annuities are certain individual annuity contracts, which are also subject to surrender charges calculated as a percentage of the deposits made and assessed at declining rates during the first seven years after a deposit is made. Also included in deferred fixed annuities were $1.27 billion of participating group annuity contracts in 2006 ($7.06 billion in 2005). As of December 31, 2006, individual annuity general account liabilities totaling $5.12 billion ($6.38 billion in 2005) were in contracts where the crediting rate is reset periodically, with portions resetting in each calendar quarter, and $795.9 million that reset annually in 2006 compared to $936.9 million in 2005. Individual fixed annuity policy reserves of $2.29 billion in 2006 ($3.33 billion in 2005) were in contracts that adjust the crediting rate every five years. Individual fixed annuity policy reserves of $684.0 million in 2006 were in contracts that adjust the crediting rate every three years compared to $926.2 million in 2005. The average crediting rate is calculated as the difference between the projected yield of the assets backing the liabilities and a targeted interest spread. However, for certain individual annuities the credited rate is also adjusted to partially reflect current new money rates. Group pension deferred fixed annuities: The maturity year is based on the expected date of policyholder withdrawal, taking into account actual experience, current interest rates and contract terms. Included were group annuity contracts representing $11.13 billion and $11.19 billion of general account liabilities as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which are generally subject to market value adjustment upon surrender and which also may be subject to surrender charges. Of the total group annuity liabilities, $6.4 million ($5.8 million in 2005) were in contracts where the crediting rate is reset monthly, $9.76 billion ($9.69 billion in 2005) were in contracts where the crediting rate is reset quarterly, $484.6 million ($530.3 million in 2005) were in contracts that adjust the crediting rate on an annual basis with portions resetting in each calendar quarter and $905.6 million ($960.8 million in 2005) were in contracts where the crediting rate is reset annually on January 1. Funding agreements backing MTNs: As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, fixed annuity policy reserves of $4.60 billion and $4.00 billion, respectively, relate to funding agreements issued in conjunction with the Company’s MTN program where the crediting rate is either fixed for the term of the contract or variable, based on an underlying index. Immediate annuities: Non-life contingent contracts in payout status where the Company has guaranteed periodic payments, typically monthly, are included. The maturity year is based on the terms of the contract. Short-term debt and long-term debt: The maturity year is the stated maturity date of the obligation. While certain obligations are callable, either at a premium or with a make-whole provision, the Company currently has no plans to call the obligations prior to the stated maturity date. Derivative financial instruments: The maturity year is based on the terms of the related contract. Interest rate swaps include cross-currency interest rate swaps that eliminate all of the Company’s existing asset and 77 Table of Contents liability foreign currency exposure. Cross-currency interest rate swaps in place against each foreign currency obligation hedge the Company against adverse currency movements with respect to both period interest payments and principal repayment. Underlying details by currency have therefore been omitted. Variable swap rates and settlement prices reflect rates and prices in effect as of December 31, 2006. Foreign Currency Risk Management In conjunction with the Company’s MTN program, the Company periodically issues both fixed and variable rate liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, the Company is exposed to changes in fair value of the liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and related interest rates. In an effort to manage these risks, the Company enters into cross-currency interest rate swaps to convert these liabilities to a U.S. dollar rate. The Company is exposed to changes in fair value of fixed rate investments denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and related interest rates. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company uses cross-currency interest rate hedges to swap these asset characteristics to variable U.S. dollar rate instruments. Cross-currency interest rate swaps on assets are structured to pay a fixed rate, in the foreign currency, and receive a variable U.S. dollar rate, generally 3-month U.S. LIBOR. These derivative instruments are designated as a fair value hedge of the fixed rate foreign denominated asset. For a variable rate foreign liability, the cross-currency interest rate swap is structured to receive a variable rate, in the foreign currency, and pay a variable U.S. dollar rate, generally 3-month U.S. LIBOR. As both sides of the cross-currency interest rate swap are variable, the derivative instrument is a basis swap. While the receive-side terms of the cross-currency interest rate swap will line up with the terms of the liability, the Company is not able to match the pay-side terms of the derivative to a specific asset. Therefore, these derivative instruments do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Cross-currency interest rate swaps on variable rate investments are structured to pay a variable rate, in the foreign currency, and receive a fixed U.S. dollar rate. The terms of the foreign currency paid on the swap will exactly match the terms of the foreign currency received on the asset, thus eliminating currency risk. These derivative instruments are designated as a cash flow hedge. Equity Market Risk Asset fees calculated as a percentage of the separate account assets are a significant source of revenue to the Company. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 83% of separate account assets were invested in equity mutual funds (approximately 83% as of December 31, 2005). Gains and losses in the equity markets result in corresponding increases and decreases in the Company’s separate account assets and asset fee revenue. In addition, a decrease in separate account assets may decrease the Company’s expectations of future profit margins due to a decrease in asset fee revenue and/or an increase in guaranteed contract claims, which also may require the Company to accelerate the amortization of DAC. The Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account returns is 8% annual growth. If equity markets were unchanged throughout a given year, the Company estimates that its net earnings per diluted share, calculated using current weighted average diluted shares outstanding, would be approximately $0.05 to $0.10 less than had the Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account returns been realized. This analysis assumes no other factors change and that an unlocking of DAC assumptions would not be required. However, as it does each quarter, the Company would evaluate its DAC balance and underlying assumptions to determine whether unlocking is appropriate. The Company can provide no assurance that the experience of flat equity market returns would not result in changes to other factors affecting profitability, including the possibility of unlocking of DAC assumptions. Many of the Company’s individual variable annuity contracts offer GMDB features. A GMDB generally provides a benefit if the annuitant dies and the contract value is less than a specified amount, which may be based 78 Table of Contents on the premiums paid less amounts withdrawn or contract value on a specified anniversary date. A decline in the stock market causing the contract value to fall below this specified amount, which varies from contract to contract based on the date the contract was entered into as well as the GMDB feature elected, will increase the net amount at risk, which is the GMDB in excess of the contract value. This could result in additional GMDB claims. In an effort to mitigate this risk, the Company has implemented a GMDB economic hedging program for certain new and existing business. Prior to implementation of the GMDB hedging program in 2000, the Company managed this risk primarily by entering into reinsurance arrangements. The GMDB economic hedging program is designed to offset changes in the economic value of the GMDB obligation up to a return of the contractholder’s premium payments. However, the first 10% of GMDB claims are not hedged. Currently the program shorts S&P 500 Index futures, which provides an offset to changes in the value of the designated obligation. The futures are not designated as hedges and, therefore, hedge accounting is not applied. The Company’s economic evaluation of the GMDB obligation is not consistent with current accounting treatment of the GMDB obligation. Therefore, the hedging activity is likely to lead to earnings volatility. This volatility was negligible in 2006. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the net amount at risk was $574.3 million and $1.10 billion before reinsurance, respectively, and $122.2 million and $184.3 million net of reinsurance, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s reserve for GMDB claims was $29.6 million and $27.2 million, respectively. See Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for discussion of the impact of adopting a new accounting principle regarding GMDB reserves in 2004. The Company also offers certain variable annuity products with a GMAB rider. A GMAB provides the contractholder with a guaranteed return of premium, adjusted proportionately for withdrawals, after a specified period of time (5, 7 or 10 years) selected by the contractholder at the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract. In some cases, the contractholder also has the option, after a specified period of time, to drop the rider and continue the variable annuity contract without the GMAB. The design of the GMAB rider limits the risk to the Company in a variety of ways including asset allocation requirements, which serve to reduce the Company’s potential exposure to underlying fund performance risks. Specifically, the GMAB terms limit asset allocation by (1) requiring partial allocation of assets to a guaranteed term option (a fixed rate investment option) and excluding certain funds that are highly volatile or difficult to hedge or (2) requiring all assets be allocated to one of the approved asset allocation funds or models defined by the Company. A GMAB represents an embedded derivative in the variable annuity contract that is required to be separated from, and valued apart from, the host variable annuity contract. The embedded derivative is carried at fair value and reported in other future policy benefits and claims. The Company initially records an offset to the fair value of the embedded derivative on the balance sheet, which is amortized through the income statement over the term of the GMAB period of the contract. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative are recognized in earnings. The fair value of the GMAB embedded derivative is calculated based on actuarial assumptions related to the projected benefit cash flows incorporating numerous assumptions including, but not limited to, expectations of contractholder persistency, market returns, correlations of market returns and market return volatility. The Company began selling contracts with the GMAB feature on May 1, 2003. Beginning October 1, 2003, the Company launched an enhanced version of the rider that offered increased equity exposure to the contractholder in return for a higher charge. The Company simultaneously began economically hedging the GMAB exposure for those risks that exceed a level it considered acceptable. The GMAB economic hedge consists of shorting interest rate futures and S&P 500 Index futures contracts and does not qualify for hedge accounting under current guidance. Quarterly, the Company purchases S&P 500 Index put options and over-the-counter basket put options, which are constructed in order to minimize the tracking error of the hedge and the GMAB liability. See Note 2(c) to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for discussion of economic hedges. The objective of the GMAB economic hedge strategy is to manage the exposures with risk beyond a level considered acceptable to the Company. The Company is exposed to equity market risk related to the GMAB feature should the growth in the underlying investments, including any GTO investment, fail to reach the guaranteed return level. The GMAB embedded derivative is likely to create volatility in earnings; however, the economic hedging program provides substantial mitigation of this exposure. This 79 Table of Contents volatility was negligible in 2006 and 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the balance of the GMAB embedded derivative was $116.3 million and $67.9 million, respectively. The increase in the balance of the GMAB embedded derivative was driven by the value of new business sold during 2006. Beginning in March 2005, the Company began offering a hybrid GMAB/GLWB through its CPPLI contract rider. This living benefit combines a GMAB feature in its first 5-10 years with a lifetime withdrawal benefit which begins upon the maturity of the GMAB and extends for the duration of the insured’s life. In the event that the insured’s contract value is exhausted through such withdrawals, the Company will continue to fund future withdrawals at a pre-defined level until the insured’s death. In some cases, the contract owner has the right to drop the GLWB portion of this rider or periodically reset the guaranteed withdrawal basis to a higher level. This benefit requires a minimum allocation to guaranteed term options or adherence to limitations required by an approved asset allocation strategy as previously described above. In March 2006, the Company added L.INC, a stand-alone GLWB, to compliment CPPLI in its product offerings. This rider is very similar to the hybrid benefit discussed above. L.INC provides for enhanced retirement income security via guaranteed accumulation rates and withdrawal rates that increase with age without the liquidity loss associated with annuitization. The lifetime withdrawal feature also is being economically hedged. Currently, the Company is using S&P 500 Index futures and U.S. Treasury futures to hedge exposure to declining equity and interest rate markets, respectively. Similar to GMDBs, the Company’s economic valuation of the lifetime income obligation is not consistent with the accounting treatment of the obligation. Therefore, hedging activity is likely to create volatility in earnings; however, the economic hedging program provides substantial mitigation of this exposure. This volatility was negligible in 2006. Inflation The rate of inflation did not have a material effect on the revenues or operating results of the Company during 2006, 2005 or 2004. ITEM 8 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA See Part IV, Item 15—Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules for an index to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report. ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on such evaluation, such officers have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and its Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of NFS’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on those criteria, the Company’s management concluded that NFS’ internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. 80 Table of Contents The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page F-2. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Effective April 1, 2006, the Company implemented a series of new enterprise resource planning (ERP) modules, including a new general ledger and chart of accounts and new consolidation, reporting and purchasing tools. The introduction of these new ERP modules and the related workflow changes resulted in changes to many of the Company’s financial reporting controls and procedures. Such changes were identified and planned prior to their introduction into the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Following implementation, these new controls were validated according to the Company’s established processes. The integration of the ERP modules and related workflow changes were substantially completed during 2006. The system changes were undertaken to standardize accounting systems, improve management reporting and consolidate accounting functions for the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and were not undertaken in response to any actual or perceived significant deficiencies in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. There have been no changes during the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION None. 81 Table of Contents PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The information set forth under the captions “Proposal 1—Election of Directors—Nominees for Class I Directors,—Class II Directors, and—Class III Directors,” “Biographical Information—Directors,” “Section 16 Beneficial Ownership Compliance,” “The Board of Directors and its Committees—Additional Governance Policies—Code of Conduct and Business Practices,” the first paragraph under “The Board of Directors and its Committees—Audit Committee,” and the second paragraph under “The Board of Directors and its Committees—Audit Committee—Audit Committee Membership” in NFS’ 2007 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. Executive Officers of the Registrant Name Age Position with NFS (as of February 27, 2007) W.G. Jurgensen 55 Chief Executive Officer Mark R. Thresher 50 President and Chief Operating Officer Patricia R. Hatler 52 Executive Vice President—Chief Legal and Governance Officer Terri L. Hill 47 Executive Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer Michael C. Keller 47 Executive Vice President—Chief Information Officer James R. Lyski 44 Executive Vice President—Chief Marketing Officer Stephen S. Rasmussen 54 Executive Vice President Robert A. Rosholt 56 Executive Vice President—Finance, Investments and Strategy Anne L. Arvia 43 Senior Vice President—Nationwide Bank John L. Carter 44 Senior Vice President—Non-Affiliated Sales Timothy G. Frommeyer 42 Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer Peter A. Golato 53 Senior Vice President— Individual Protection Business Head Harry H. Hallowell 46 Senior Vice President and Treasurer Kelly A. Hamilton 42 Senior Vice President—Internal Audits William S. Jackson 53 Senior Vice President—Nationwide Retirement Plans Gregory S. Lashutka 62 Senior Vice President—Corporate Relations Keith I. Millner 46 Senior Vice President—Retail Distribution and In-Retirement Business Brian W. Nocco 54 Senior Vice President—Enterprise Chief Risk Officer Gail G. Snyder 52 Senior Vice President—Chief Investment Officer Business experience for each of the individuals listed in the above table is set forth below: W.G. Jurgensen has been Chief Executive Officer of NFS and several subsidiaries of NFS since August 2000 and a director of NFS since May 2000. He served as Chairman of the Board of NFS from January 2001 to June 2003 and Chief Executive Officer—Elect from May to August 2000. Since August 2000, he has been Chief Executive Officer of NMIC, Nationwide Mutual Fire Insurance Company (Nationwide Mutual Fire), NLIC and NLAIC, and was Chief Executive Officer—Elect of those companies from May to August 2000. He also serves as Chief Executive Officer of several other companies within Nationwide, which is comprised of NFS, NMIC, Nationwide Mutual Fire and all of their respective subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, Nationwide). Mr. Jurgensen has been a director of NMIC, Nationwide Mutual Fire, NLIC and NLAIC since May 2000 and serves as a director of several other companies within Nationwide, as well as a trustee of Nationwide Foundation, a not-for-profit corporation that contributes to nonprofit agencies and community projects. Mr. Jurgensen has been a director of ConAgra Foods, Inc., a producer and marketer of food products, since August 2002. Before joining Nationwide, Mr. Jurgensen was Executive Vice President of Bank One Corporation (now JP Morgan Chase & Co.), an investment banking and financial services institution, from 1998 to May 2000. He served as Executive Vice President of First Chicago NBD Corporation, a financial institution, and Chairman of FCC National Bank, a financial institution, from 1996 to May 1998. 82 Table of Contents Mark R. Thresher has been President and Chief Operating Officer of NFS, NLIC and NLAIC since May 2004. He was President and Chief Operating Officer—Elect from April 2004 to May 2004; President and Chief Operating Officer—Elect and Chief Financial Officer from December 2003 to April 2004; and Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer from November 2002 to December 2003 of NFS, NLIC and NLAIC. Mr. Thresher also served NFS as its Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from November 2002 to December 2003; Senior Vice President—Finance and Treasurer from May 1999 to November 2002; and Vice President—Finance and Controller from December 1996 to May 1999. He was Senior Vice President—Finance of NLIC and NLAIC from May 1999 to November 2002, and Vice President—Controller of those companies from December 1996 to May 1999. He also served as Vice President and Treasurer of several other companies within Nationwide from June 1996 to August 1996. Prior to joining Nationwide, Mr. Thresher served as a partner with KPMG LLP, a public accounting firm, from July 1988 to May 1996. Patricia R. Hatler has been Executive Vice President—Chief Legal and Governance Officer of NFS since December 2004. Previously, Ms. Hatler served NFS as its Executive Vice President and General Counsel from October 2004 to December 2004; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from March 2003 to October 2004; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from May 2000 to March 2003; and Senior Vice President and General Counsel from August 1999 to May 2000. She has been Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Governance Officer of several other companies within Nationwide since December 2004 and held similar positions with several Nationwide companies, including Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, since July 1999. Prior to that time, she was General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Independence Blue Cross, a health insurance provider, from 1983 to July 1999. Terri L. Hill has been Executive Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer of NFS and several other Nationwide companies since September 2003. She was Senior Vice President—Human Resources/Operations for Scottsdale Insurance Company (Scottsdale), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NMIC, and its affiliates from December 2000 to September 2003; Vice President—Human Resources/Communications of Scottsdale from May 1997 to December 2000; and Vice President—Human Resources of Scottsdale from October 1996 to May 1997. Ms. Hill was Vice President—Human Relations from February 1985 to September 1996 at American Express, a diversified worldwide travel, financial and network services company, and Director of Personnel for Bullock’s Department Stores, a department store retailer, from August 1981 to February 1985. Michael C. Keller has been Executive Vice President—Chief Information Officer of NFS since August 2001. Mr. Keller has been Executive Vice President—Chief Information Officer of several other companies within Nationwide since June 2001. Prior to that time, Mr. Keller was Senior Vice President of Bank One, a financial institution, from January 1998 to June 2001, and held various management positions with IBM Corporation, an information technology company, from July 1982 to December 1997. James R. Lyski has been Executive Vice President—Chief Marketing Officer of NFS since October 2006. Mr. Lyski previously served as Senior Vice President for Strategy, Product and Marketing at CIGNA HealthCare, Inc., an employee benefits company, from October 2002 to October 2006; as Chief Operating Officer of Atabok, Inc., a Boston-based technology company, from June 2000 to October 2002; and as Vice President for U.S. Marketing at FedEx Corporation, a global shipping company, from August 1989 to May 2000. Stephen S. Rasmussen has been Executive Vice President of NFS and President and Chief Operating Officer of NMIC and Nationwide Mutual Fire since September 2003. Mr. Rasmussen is also a Director, President and Chief Operating Officer of ALLIED Group, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NMIC, and serves as Chairman and Director of several Allied subsidiaries. He also serves as a Director of several other companies within Nationwide. Prior to NMIC’s acquisition of ALLIED Group, Inc., Mr. Rasmussen was President and Chief Operating Officer of that company and its subsidiaries from December 2000 to September 2003 and held various management positions with those companies from 1974 to December 2000. Robert A. Rosholt has been Executive Vice President—Finance, Investments and Strategy of NFS since October 2002. Since January 2006, he has served as Executive Vice President—Chief Financial Officer of NMIC 83 Table of Contents and several other companies within Nationwide. He served as Executive Vice President—Chief Finance and Investment Officer of NMIC and several other companies within Nationwide from October 2002 to December 2005. He also serves as a Director of several Nationwide companies. Prior to joining Nationwide, Mr. Rosholt was Executive Vice President and Head of Operations of AON Corporation, a provider of risk management, retail, reinsurance, and wholesale brokerage, claims management, and human capital consulting services, from September 2000 to October 2002, and held various management positions, including Chief Financial Officer, with Bank One from June 1974 to May 2000. Anne L. Arvia has been Senior Vice President—Nationwide Bank since September 2006. Prior to joining Nationwide Bank, Ms. Arvia served as the Chief Executive Officer of ShoreBank, a community and environmental bank, from May 2002 to August 2006; as the President of ShoreBank from May 2001 to August 2006; and held various other positions with ShoreBank from May 1991 to April 2002. John L. Carter has been Senior Vice President—Non-Affiliated Sales of NFS, NLIC and NLAIC and President of Nationwide Financial Distributors, Inc., as well as Senior Vice President of several other Nationwide companies, since November 2005. Previously, he served as Corporate Vice President of Platform Distribution at Prudential Financial, a financial services company, from August 1999 to November 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Carter held positions with other financial services firms, including Kidder Peabody, where he served in executive sales positions, and UBS. Timothy G. Frommeyer has been Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer of NFS and several other Nationwide companies since November 2005. He served as Vice President and Chief Actuary of NLIC and NLAIC from May 2004 to November 2005. He also served as Senior Vice President—Finance and Actuarial of NRS from November 2001 to May 2004 and Vice President—Public Sector Finance and Actuarial of NLIC and NLAIC from November 2001 to May 2004. From April 2000 to May 2001, Mr. Frommeyer served as Associate Vice President—Public Sector and Retail Actuarial of NLIC and NLAIC. Prior to that time, he held various other positions within Nationwide. Peter A. Golato has been Senior Vice President—Individual Protection Business Head of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide since May 2004. Mr. Golato also serves as a Director (since May 2004) and President (since August 2004) of NLICA, NLACA and Nationwide Life Insurance Company of Delaware (NLIC of Delaware). Previously, he was Vice President—Brokerage Life Sales of NLIC and NLAIC from May 2000 to May 2004, and NMIC and Nationwide Mutual Fire from May 2000 to October 2004. Mr. Golato held various positions within Nationwide from March 1993 to May 2000. Prior to that time, he was Marketing Manager for Aetna Life and Casualty Company, a provider of managed care benefits and dental, pharmacy, vision, and group insurance coverage, from September 1976 to March 1993. Harry H. Hallowell has been Senior Vice President and Treasurer of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide since January 2006. Previously, Mr. Hallowell served as Vice President and Head Portfolio Risk Manager for Nationwide’s Office of Investments from May 2003 to December 2005. From 1984 to 2003, he served as a Senior Vice President and Head of Corporate Funding for Bank One Corporation. Kelly A. Hamilton has been Senior Vice President—Internal Audits of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide since September 2005. She served several Nationwide companies as Senior Vice President—PC Finance, from September 2003 to August 2005; Vice President—Corporate Controller, from August 2001 to September 2003, and Associate Vice President—Corporate Accounting Services, from April 2000 to August 2001. Additionally, Ms. Hamilton held other positions within Nationwide starting in July 1995. Ms. Hamilton also serves as a Director of several Nationwide companies. Previously, she held a variety of management and accounting positions at KPMG LLP from January 1986 to July 1995. William S. Jackson has been Senior Vice President, Nationwide Retirement Plans, of NFS since October 2006. Previously, Mr. Jackson served as Sales Center Vice President from August 2001 to September 2006; as Sales Financial Services Sales Officer from February 1999 to August 2001; and in various other positions within Nationwide since 1984. 84 Table of Contents Gregory S. Lashutka has been Senior Vice President—Corporate Relations of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide since January 2000. Prior to that time, he was Mayor of the City of Columbus (Ohio) from January 1992 to December 1999. Keith I. Millner has been Senior Vice President—Retail Distribution and In-Retirement Business of NFS since January 2006. He served as Senior Vice President—In-Retirement Business Head of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide from January 2005 to January 2006. Prior to joining Nationwide, Mr. Millner was a Senior Vice President for CIGNA HealthCare, a health insurance provider, from August 2002 to December 2004; an independent consultant from September 2001 to August 2002; and served as Senior Vice President and in other positions for Assurant Group, an insurance and related product marketing firm (formerly a subsidiary of Fortis, Inc., a financial services firm) from March 1996 to September 2001. Brian W. Nocco has been Senior Vice President—Enterprise Chief Risk Officer of NFS and several other companies within Nationwide since January 2006. Previously he was Senior Vice President and Treasurer of NFS from December 2002 to January 2006 and Senior Vice President and Treasurer of NMIC from April 2001 to January 2006. He was Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer of NFS from April 2001 to December 2002. Mr. Nocco has been Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer of NLICA, NLACA and NLIC of Delaware since October 2002 and serves as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of several other companies within Nationwide. Prior to that time, he was Executive Vice President of Imperial Bank, a financial institution, and its subsidiaries, from May 1998 to June 2000. Mr. Nocco was Senior Vice President—Chief Compliance Officer with The Chubb Corporation, a holding company whose subsidiaries are engaged in property and casualty insurance, life insurance and real estate, from 1994 to 1998, and Treasurer and Vice President—Finance of Continental Bank Corporation, a financial institution, from 1986 to 1994. Gail G. Snyder has been Senior Vice President—Chief Investment Officer of NFS and several other Nationwide companies since January 2006. She was previously Senior Vice President—Enterprise Portfolio and Strategy Management of NMIC and several other Nationwide companies from January 2005 to January 2006. Previously, she served as Senior Vice President—Portfolio Management of Genworth Financial, Inc., an insurance and financial services company, from May 2004 to December 2004. From March 1995 to May 2005, she served in various capacities at divisions of General Electric, including Senior Vice President—Insurance-Strategic Client Solutions of GE Asset Management, a financial services firm; Chief Investment Officer of GE Mortgage Insurance, a mortgage services firm; and Vice President of First Colony Life Insurance Company, an insurance services company acquired by General Electric. She also held various investment positions at Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, an insurance services company, from December 1986 to March 1995. The Board of Directors adopted the Nationwide Code of Conduct and Business Practices (Code) which is posted on the Company’s web site (http://www.nationwidefinancial.com) under the Corporate Governance subsection of the Investor Relations area of the web site. The Code is available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who requests it. Requests for copies should be made to Mark Barnett, Vice President—Investor Relations, One Nationwide Plaza, Columbus, Ohio, 43215, or via telephone at 614-249-8437. All directors, officers and employees of the Nationwide group of companies are required to adhere to the Code. As required by SEC regulations and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, the Code contains written standards designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote honest, ethical conduct including ethical handling of conflicts; full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in regulatory reports and public communications; compliance with laws, rules and regulations; prompt internal reporting of violations of the Code; and accountability for adherence to the Code. It also contains compliance standards and procedures that facilitate the effective operation of the Code. Any waivers from, or amendments to, the Code for directors and executive officers must be approved by the Board of Directors or a designated board committee and will be promptly disclosed to the shareholders by posting any waiver on the NFS web site listed above. ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information required by this item is set forth under the captions “Director Compensation” and “Executive Compensation” in the NFS 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 85 Table of Contents ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock” in the NFS 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. NFS maintains two equity compensation plans, the Third Amended and Restated Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan (LTEP) and the Amended and Restated Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. Stock Retainer Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Stock Retainer Plan). The following table provides information about equity awards under these plans as of December 31, 2006: Plan category (a) Number of Class ACommon Shares to beissued upon exercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights (b) Weighted averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights (c) Number of Class ACommon Shares remainingavailable for future issuanceunder equity compensationplans (excluding securitiesreflected in column (a)) Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders1 5,975,143 $ 36.88 9,072,111 2 Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders N/A N/A N/A Total 5,975,143 $ 36.88 9,072,111 1 Consists of the LTEP and the Stock Retainer Plan. NFS does not maintain any equity compensation plan not approved by shareholders. 2 Securities remaining available for issuance under the LTEP and the Stock Retainer Plan, of which 19,292 shares are available for issuance under the Stock Retainer Plan. For the LTEP, in addition to being available for issuance upon exercise of options and stock appreciation rights, 9,052,819 shares may be issued in connection with restricted stock, performance shares, performance units and stock-based Nationwide value added awards. ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Information required by this item is set forth under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “The Board of Directors and its Committees—Additional Governance Policies—Independence Standards for Directors” in the NFS 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information required by this item is set forth under the caption “Proposal 2—Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm—Principal Accounting Fees and Services” in the NFS 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 86 Table of Contents PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES Page Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Management F-1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-3 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 F-4 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 F-5 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 F-6 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 F-7 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-8 Financial Statement Schedules Schedule I—ConsolidatedSummary of Investments—Other Than Investments in Related Parties as of December 31, 2006 F-70 Schedule II—CondensedFinancial Information of Registrant F-71 Schedule III—SupplementaryInsurance Information as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and for the years then ended F-74 Schedule IV—Reinsuranceas of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and for the years then ended F-75 Schedule V—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 F-76 Exhibits F-78 All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or not required, or because the required information has been included in the audited consolidated financial statements or notes thereto. 87 Table of Contents Report of Management The management of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the consolidated financial statements and other financial information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and where necessary, include amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgment of management. Management believes the consolidated financial statements present fairly the Company’s financial position and results of operations and that other financial data contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K has been compiled in a manner consistent with the consolidated financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and our Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. Our management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on those criteria, our management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. Our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, performed audits of the Company’s consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting. Management has made available to KPMG LLP all of the Company’s financial records and related data. Management also recognizes its responsibility for fostering a strong ethical business environment that ensures the Company’s affairs are conducted according to the highest standards of professional conduct, honesty and integrity. The Company’s Code of Conduct and Business Practices (Code), which is posted on the Company’s web site, reflects this responsibility. The Code addresses the necessity of ensuring open communication within the Company; potential conflicts of interest; marketing practices; compliance with all laws, including those relating to financial disclosure; and the confidentiality of proprietary information. The Company’s Office of Ethics and Business Practices is responsible for raising employee awareness of the Company’s Code and serves as a confidential resource for inquiries and reporting. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, composed of independent directors pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, meets periodically with the external and internal auditors, jointly and separately, to evaluate the effectiveness of work performed by them in discharging their respective responsibilities and to assure their independence and free access to the Audit Committee. /s/ Mark R. Thresher Name: Mark R. Thresher Title: President and Chief Operating Officer March 1, 2007 F-1 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Nationwide Financial Services, Inc.: We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting contained in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries’ (the Company) 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, management’s assessment that Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index, and our report dated March 1, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ KPMG LLP Columbus, Ohio March 1, 2007 F-2 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Nationwide Financial Services, Inc.: We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as listed in the accompanying index. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedules as listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 1, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts, in 2004. /s/ KPMG LLP Columbus, Ohio March 1, 2007 F-3 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Income (in millions, except per share amounts) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Revenues: Policy charges $ 1,316.0 $ 1,241.5 $ 1,222.6 Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 441.5 399.9 402.7 Net investment income 2,298.5 2,343.9 2,231.7 Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items 9.1 20.8 (32.2 ) Other income 350.4 301.8 251.3 Total revenues 4,415.5 4,307.9 4,076.1 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 1,380.3 1,380.9 1,328.3 Life insurance and annuity benefits 646.8 574.9 548.6 Policyholder dividends on participating policies 90.7 107.3 101.4 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 462.9 480.2 430.4 Amortization of value of business acquired 46.0 45.0 52.3 Interest expense on debt 103.7 108.0 102.4 Debt extinguishment costs — 21.7 — Other operating expenses 906.2 833.8 837.6 Total benefits and expenses 3,636.6 3,551.8 3,401.0 Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 778.9 756.1 675.1 Federal income tax expense 65.1 132.7 167.4 Income from continuing operations 713.8 623.4 507.7 Discontinued operations, net of taxes — (24.7 ) (2.3 ) Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle, net of taxes — — (3.4 ) Net income $ 713.8 $ 598.7 $ 502.0 Earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 4.76 $ 4.08 $ 3.34 Diluted $ 4.74 $ 4.06 $ 3.32 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 4.76 $ 3.92 $ 3.30 Diluted $ 4.74 $ 3.90 $ 3.28 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 149.9 152.9 152.1 Diluted 150.7 153.6 152.9 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.92 $ 0.76 $ 0.72 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. F-4 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions, except per share amounts) December 31, 2006 2005 Assets Investments: Securities available-for-sale, at fair value: Fixed maturity securities (cost $28,067.2 in 2006; $29,830.8 in 2005) $ 28,160.0 $ 30,106.0 Equity securities (cost $57.2 in 2006; $64.8 in 2005) 67.6 75.6 Trading assets, at fair value 24.3 34.4 Mortgage loans on real estate, net 8,909.8 9,148.6 Real estate, net 76.7 108.7 Policy loans 966.9 930.6 Other long-term investments 780.1 691.9 Short-term investments, including amounts managed by a related party 2,215.6 2,073.2 Total investments 41,201.0 43,169.0 Cash 20.2 16.4 Accrued investment income 373.8 396.3 Deferred policy acquisition costs 3,851.0 3,685.4 Value of business acquired 392.7 449.7 Goodwill 359.0 364.5 Other assets 2,519.2 2,114.8 Assets held in separate accounts 70,694.7 65,963.8 Total assets $ 119,411.6 $ 116,159.9 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Liabilities: Future policy benefits and claims $ 38,097.8 $ 39,748.1 Short-term debt 85.2 252.3 Long-term debt 1,398.5 1,398.0 Other liabilities 3,597.1 3,447.3 Liabilities related to separate accounts 70,694.7 65,963.8 Total liabilities 113,873.3 110,809.5 Shareholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; authorized—50.0 shares; issued and outstanding—none — — Class A common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized—750.0 shares; issued—69.7 and 67.5 shares in 2006 and 2005, respectively; outstanding—54.2 and 56.9 shares in 2006 and 2005, respectively 0.7 0.7 Class B common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized—750.0 shares; issued and outstanding—91.8 and 95.6 shares in 2006 and 2005, respectively 1.0 1.0 Additional paid-in capital 1,762.3 1,670.8 Retained earnings 4,460.3 3,883.1 Accumulated other comprehensive income 31.9 100.7 Treasury stock (716.3 ) (304.2 ) Other, net (1.6 ) (1.7 ) Total shareholders’ equity 5,538.3 5,350.4 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 119,411.6 $ 116,159.9 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. F-5 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity (in millions) Class Acommonstock Class Bcommonstock Additionalpaid-incapital Retainedearnings Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome Treasurystock Other,net Totalshareholders’equity Balance as of December 31, 2003 $ 0.6 $ 1.0 $ 1,614.3 $ 3,006.4 $ 504.9 $ (247.6 ) $ (4.2 ) $ 4,875.4 Comprehensive income: Net income — — — 502.0 — — — 502.0 Other comprehensive loss, net of taxes — — — — (72.7 ) — — (72.7 ) Total comprehensive income 429.3 Cash dividends declared — — — (108.4 ) — — — (108.4 ) Stock options exercised — — 20.2 — — — — 20.2 Other, net 0.1 — 0.1 — — (3.8 ) 2.2 (1.4 ) Balance as of December 31, 2004 0.7 1.0 1,634.6 3,400.0 432.2 (251.4 ) (2.0 ) 5,215.1 Comprehensive income: Net income — — — 598.7 — — — 598.7 Other comprehensive loss, net of taxes — — — — (331.5 ) — — (331.5 ) Total comprehensive income 267.2 Cash dividends declared — — — (116.2 ) — — — (116.2 ) Common shares repurchased under announced program — — — — — (51.4 ) — (51.4 ) Stock options exercised — — 39.4 — — — — 39.4 Other, net — — (3.2 ) 0.6 — (1.4 ) 0.3 (3.7 ) Balance as of December 31, 2005 0.7 1.0 1,670.8 3,883.1 100.7 (304.2 ) (1.7 ) 5,350.4 Comprehensive income: Net income — — — 713.8 — — — 713.8 Other comprehensive loss, net of taxes — — — — (68.8 ) — — (68.8 ) Total comprehensive income 645.0 Cash dividends declared — — — (136.6 ) — — — (136.6 ) Common shares repurchased under announced program — — (4.8 ) — — (412.0 ) — (416.8 ) Stock options exercised — — 87.6 — — — — 87.6 Other, net — — 8.7 — — (0.1 ) 0.1 8.7 Balance as of December 31, 2006 $ 0.7 $ 1.0 $ 1,762.3 $ 4,460.3 $ 31.9 $ (716.3 ) $ (1.6 ) $ 5,538.3 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. F-6 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions) Years ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 713.8 $ 598.7 $ 502.0 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Net realized (gains) losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items (9.1 ) (20.8 ) 32.2 Interest credited to policyholder account values 1,380.3 1,380.9 1,328.3 Capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs (588.4 ) (489.0 ) (539.2 ) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 462.9 480.2 430.4 Amortization and depreciation, excluding debt extinguishment costs 112.7 142.9 167.3 Debt extinguishment costs (non-cash) — 21.7 — (Increase) decrease in other assets (399.9 ) 621.6 (331.5 ) Increase (decrease) in policy and other liabilities 762.7 (777.7 ) 462.3 Other, net 4.8 (4.4 ) 35.2 Net cash provided by operating activities 2,439.8 1,954.1 2,087.0 Cash flows from investing activities: Proceeds from maturity of securities available-for-sale 5,579.4 5,555.0 3,888.4 Proceeds from sale of securities available-for-sale 2,645.0 3,480.5 3,767.2 Proceeds from repayments or sales of mortgage loans on real estate 2,549.4 2,962.9 2,083.2 Cost of securities available-for-sale acquired (6,489.3 ) (8,295.6 ) (8,368.8 ) Cost of mortgage loans on real estate originated or acquired (2,319.2 ) (2,716.0 ) (2,348.4 ) Net increase in short-term investments (142.4 ) (55.6 ) (48.7 ) Collateral (paid) received—securities lending, net (314.6 ) 36.6 89.4 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired — (18.0 ) — Other, net (81.0 ) 135.4 (356.5 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,427.3 1,085.2 (1,294.2 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Net (decrease) increase in short-term debt (167.1 ) 21.5 25.5 Net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt — 199.4 — Principal payments on long-term debt — (206.2 ) — Cash dividends paid (132.7 ) (114.8 ) (101.9 ) Investment and universal life insurance product deposits 3,781.7 3,956.1 4,399.1 Investment and universal life insurance product withdrawals (7,024.6 ) (6,914.0 ) (5,091.3 ) Common shares repurchased under announced program (416.8 ) (49.0 ) — Other, net 96.2 31.7 16.7 Net cash used in financing activities (3,863.3 ) (3,075.3 ) (751.9 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash 3.8 (36.0 ) 40.9 Cash, beginning of period 16.4 52.4 11.5 Cash, end of period $ 20.2 $ 16.4 $ 52.4 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. F-7 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (1) Nature of Operations Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. (NFS, or collectively with its subsidiaries, the Company) was formed in November 1996. NFS is the holding company for Nationwide Life Insurance Company (NLIC) and other companies that comprise the domestic life insurance and retirement savings operations of the Nationwide group of companies (Nationwide). This group includes Nationwide Financial Network (NFN), which refers to Nationwide Life Insurance Company of America (NLICA) and its subsidiaries, including the affiliated distribution network. NFS is incorporated in Delaware and maintains its principal executive offices in Columbus, Ohio. The Company is a leading provider of long-term savings and retirement products in the United States of America (U.S.). The Company develops and sells a diverse range of products including individual annuities, private and public sector group retirement plans, other investment products sold to institutions, life insurance and advisory services. The Company sells its products through a diverse distribution network. Unaffiliated entities that sell the Company’s products to their own customer bases include independent broker/dealers, financial institutions, wirehouse and regional firms, pension plan administrators, and life insurance specialists. Representatives of the Company who market products directly to a customer base include Nationwide Retirement Solutions, Inc. (NRS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary; NFN producers; The 401(k) Company, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary (see Note 2(n) for information about the pending sale of The 401(k) Company); and TBG Insurance Services Corporation d/b/a TBG Financial (TBG Financial), a majority-owned subsidiary, through its joint venture with MC Insurance Agency Services, LLC d/b/a Mullin Consulting (Mullin Consulting). The Company also distributes retirement savings products through the agency distribution force of its ultimate majority parent company, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company (NMIC). As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company did not have a significant concentration of financial instruments in a single investee, industry or geographic region of the U.S. Also, the Company did not have a concentration of business transactions with a particular customer, lender, distribution source, market or geographic region of the U.S. in which business is conducted that makes it overly vulnerable to a single event which could cause a severe impact to the Company’s financial position. The 54.2 million shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006 are publicly held and primarily were issued through NFS’ initial public offering completed in March 1997 and in conjunction with the acquisition of NFN in October 2002. The Class A shares represent 37.1% of the equity ownership in NFS and 5.6% of the combined voting power of NFS’ Class A and Class B common stock as of December 31, 2006. Nationwide Corporation (Nationwide Corp.) owns all of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which represents the remaining 62.9% equity ownership and 94.4% of the combined voting power of the shareholders of NFS as of December 31, 2006. Nationwide Corp. is a majority-owned subsidiary of NMIC. (2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies followed by the Company that materially affect financial reporting are summarized below. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. F-8 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The Company’s most significant estimates include those used to determine the following: the balance, recoverability and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) for investment and universal life insurance products; impairment losses on investments; valuation allowances for mortgage loans on real estate; the liability for future policy benefits and claims; and federal income tax provision. Although some variability is inherent in these estimates, the recorded amounts reflect management’s best estimates based on facts and circumstances as of the balance sheet date. Management believes the amounts provided are appropriate. (a) Consolidation Policy The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NFS and companies in which NFS directly or indirectly has a controlling financial interest. Minority interest expense is included in other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of income, and minority interest is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. (b) Valuation of Investments, Investment Income and Related Gains and Losses The Company is required to classify its fixed maturity securities and marketable equity securities as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or trading. Trading assets may include any combination of fixed maturity securities and marketable equity securities. Trading assets are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded as a component of net realized gains on investments. All other fixed maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of adjustments to DAC, value of business acquired (VOBA), future policy benefits and claims, policyholder dividend obligation and deferred federal income taxes reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) in shareholders’ equity. The adjustments to DAC and VOBA represent the changes in amortization of DAC and VOBA that would have been required as a charge or credit to operations had such unrealized amounts been realized and allocated to the product lines. The adjustment to future policy benefits and claims represents the increase in policy reserves from using a discount rate that would have been required had such unrealized amounts been realized and the proceeds reinvested at then current market interest rates, which were lower than the then current effective portfolio rate. The fair value of fixed maturity and marketable equity securities is generally obtained from independent pricing services based on market quotations. For fixed maturity securities not priced by independent services (generally private placement securities and securities that do not trade regularly), an internally developed pricing model or “corporate pricing matrix” is most often used. The corporate pricing matrix is developed by obtaining spreads versus the U.S. Treasury yield for corporate securities with varying weighted average lives and bond ratings. The weighted average life and bond rating of a particular fixed maturity security to be priced using the corporate matrix are important inputs into the model and are used to determine a corresponding spread that is added to the U.S. Treasury yield to create an estimated market yield for that bond. The estimated market yield and other relevant factors are then used to estimate the fair value of the particular fixed maturity security. Additionally, for valuing certain fixed maturity securities with complex cash flows such as certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, a “structured product model” is used. The structured product model uses third party pricing tools. For securities for which quoted market prices are not available and for which the Company’s structured product model is not suitable for estimating fair values, fair values are determined using other modeling techniques, primarily a commercial software application utilized in valuing complex securitized investments with variable cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, 72% of the fair values of fixed maturity securities were obtained from independent pricing services, 19% from the Company’s pricing matrices and 9% from other sources, compared to 73%, 20% and 7%, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. F-9 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Management regularly reviews each investment in its fixed maturity and equity securities portfolios to evaluate the necessity of recording impairment losses for other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of investments. Under the Company’s accounting policy for equity securities and debt securities that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that may limit the Company’s ability to fully recover cost, an impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary unless the Company has both the ability and intent to hold the investment until the security’s forecasted recovery and evidence exists indicating that recovery will occur in a reasonable period of time. Also, for such debt securities management estimates cash flows over the life of purchased beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. If management estimates that the fair value of its beneficial interest is not greater than or equal to its carrying value based on current information and events, and if there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate (considering both timing and amount), then the Company recognizes an other-than-temporary impairment and writes down the purchased beneficial interest to fair value. For other debt securities, an other-than-temporary impairment charge is taken when the Company does not have the ability and intent to hold the security until the forecasted recovery or if it is no longer probable that the Company will recover all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security. Many criteria are considered during this process including, but not limited to, the current fair value as compared to cost or amortized cost, as appropriate, of the security; the amount and length of time a security’s fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; specific credit issues and financial prospects related to the issuer; management’s intent to hold or dispose of the security; and current economic conditions. Other-than-temporary impairment losses result in a permanent reduction to the cost basis of the underlying investment. For mortgage-backed securities, the Company recognizes income using a constant effective yield method based on prepayment assumptions and the estimated economic life of the securities. When estimated prepayments differ significantly from anticipated prepayments, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. Any resulting adjustment is included in net investment income. All other investment income is recorded using the interest-method without anticipating the impact of prepayments. The Company provides valuation allowances for impairments of mortgage loans on real estate based on a review by portfolio managers. Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. When management determines that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established equal to the difference between the carrying value and the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or the fair value of the collateral, if the loan is collateral dependent. In addition to the valuation allowance on specific loans, the Company maintains an unallocated allowance for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, but not yet specifically identified by loan. Changes in the valuation allowance are recorded in net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. Loans in foreclosure are placed on non-accrual status. Interest received on non-accrual status mortgage loans on real estate is included in net investment income in the period received. The valuation allowance account for mortgage loans on real estate is maintained at a level believed adequate by management and reflects management’s best estimate of probable credit losses, including losses incurred at F-10 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 the balance sheet date but not yet identified by specific loan. Management’s periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses is based on past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The Company grants mainly commercial mortgage loans on real estate to customers throughout the U.S. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a diversified portfolio with carrying values of no more than 25.2% of the mortgage loan portfolio in any geographic region of the U.S. and no more than 3.3% with any one borrower, compared to 23.6% and 1.8%, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, 33.5% and 32.0% of the carrying value of the Company’s commercial mortgage loan portfolio financed retail properties, respectively. Real estate to be held and used is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Real estate designated as held for disposal is not depreciated and is carried at the lower of the carrying value at the time of such designation or fair value less cost to sell. Other long-term investments are carried on the equity method of accounting. Impairment losses are recorded on investments in long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets’ carrying amounts. Realized gains and losses on the sale of investments are determined on the basis of specific security identification. Changes in the Company’s mortgage loan valuation allowance and recognition of impairment losses for other-than-temporary declines in the fair values of applicable investments are included in realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. (c) Derivative Instruments Derivatives are carried at fair value. On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge); a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge); a foreign currency fair value or cash flow hedge (foreign currency hedge); or a non-hedge transaction. The Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for entering into various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. The Company also formally assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used for hedging transactions are expected to be and, for ongoing hedging relationships, have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. When it is determined that a derivative is not, or is not expected to be, highly effective as a hedge or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. The Company enters into interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps or Euro futures to hedge the fair value of existing fixed rate assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company uses short U.S. Treasury future positions to hedge the fair value of bond and mortgage loan commitments. Typically, the Company is hedging the risk of changes in fair value attributable to changes in benchmark interest rates. Derivative instruments classified as fair value hedges are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in realized gains and losses on F-11 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. Changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the risk being hedged are also recorded in realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. The Company may enter into “receive fixed/pay variable” interest rate swaps to hedge existing variable rate assets or to hedge cash flows from the anticipated purchase of investments. These derivative instruments are identified as cash flow hedges and are carried at fair value with the offset recorded in AOCI to the extent the hedging relationship is effective. The ineffective portion of the hedging relationship is recorded in realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are initially recorded in AOCI are reclassified out of AOCI and recognized in earnings over the same period(s) that the hedged item affects earnings. Accrued interest receivable or payable under interest rate and foreign currency swaps are recognized as an adjustment to net investment income or interest credited to policyholder account values consistent with the nature of the hedged item, except for interest rate swaps hedging the anticipated sale of investments where amounts receivable or payable under the swaps are recorded as realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items, and except for interest rate swaps hedging the anticipated purchase of investments where amounts receivable or payable under the swaps are initially recorded in AOCI to the extent the hedging relationship is effective. The Company periodically may enter into a derivative transaction that will not qualify for hedge accounting. The Company does not enter into speculative positions. Although these transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting, or have not been designated in hedging relationships by the Company, they are part of its overall risk management strategy. For example, the Company may sell credit default protection through a credit default swap. Although the credit default swap may not be effective in hedging specific investments, the income stream allows the Company to manage overall investment yields while exposing the Company to acceptable credit risk. The Company may enter into a cross-currency basis swap (pay a variable U.S. rate and receive a variable foreign-denominated rate) to eliminate the foreign currency exposure of a variable rate foreign-denominated liability. Although basis swaps may qualify for hedge accounting, the Company has chosen not to designate these derivatives as hedging instruments due to the difficulty in assessing and monitoring effectiveness for both sides of the basis swap. Derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedging instruments are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. (d) Revenues and Benefits Investment and Universal Life Insurance Products: Investment products consist primarily of individual and group variable and fixed deferred annuities. Universal life insurance products include universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, corporate-owned life insurance (COLI), bank-owned life insurance (BOLI) and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies. Revenues for investment products and universal life insurance products consist of net investment income, asset fees, cost of insurance charges, administrative fees and surrender charges that have been earned and assessed against policy account balances during the period. The timing of revenue recognition as it relates to fees assessed on investment contracts and universal life contracts is determined based on the nature of such fees. Asset fees, cost of insurance charges and administrative fees are assessed on a daily or monthly basis and recognized as revenue when assessed and earned. Certain amounts assessed that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods are reported as unearned revenue and recognized in income over the periods benefited. Surrender charges are recognized upon surrender F-12 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 of a contract in accordance with contractual terms. Policy benefits and claims that are charged to expense include interest credited to policy account values and benefits and claims incurred in the period in excess of related policy account values. Traditional Life Insurance Products: Traditional life insurance products include those products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits and primarily consist of whole life insurance, limited-payment life insurance, term life insurance and certain annuities with life contingencies. Premiums for traditional life insurance products are recognized as revenue when due. Benefits and expenses are associated with earned premiums so that profits are recognized over the life of the contract. This association is accomplished through the provision for future policy benefits and the deferral and amortization of policy acquisition costs. (e) Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs for Investment and Universal Life Insurance Products The Company has deferred certain costs of acquiring investment and universal life insurance products business, principally commissions, certain expenses of the policy issue and underwriting department, and certain variable sales expenses that relate to and vary with the production of new and renewal business. Investment products primarily consist of individual and group variable and fixed deferred annuities. Universal life insurance products include universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, COLI and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies. DAC is subject to recoverability testing in the year of policy issuance and loss recognition testing at the end of each reporting period. For investment and universal life insurance products, DAC is being amortized with interest over the lives of the policies in relation to the present value of estimated gross profits from projected interest margins, asset fees, cost of insurance charges, administration fees, surrender charges, and net realized gains and losses less policy benefits and policy maintenance expenses. The DAC asset related to investment products and universal life insurance products is adjusted to reflect the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, as described in Note 2(b). The most significant assumptions that are involved in the estimation of future gross profits include future net separate account performance, surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. The Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account performance is currently 8% growth per year. If actual net separate account performance varies from the 8% assumption, the Company assumes different performance levels over the next three years such that the mean return equals the long-term assumption. This process is referred to as a reversion to the mean. The assumed net separate account return assumptions used in the DAC models are intended to reflect what is anticipated. However, based on historical returns of the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Index, and as part of its pre-set parameters, the Company’s reversion to the mean process generally limits returns to 0-15% during the three-year reversion period. Changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the amount of DAC reported for investment products and universal life insurance products and their related amortization patterns. In the event actual experience differs from assumptions or future assumptions are revised, the Company is required to record an increase or decrease in DAC amortization expense, which could be significant. In general, increases in the estimated general and separate account returns result in increased expected future profitability and may lower the rate of DAC amortization, while increases in lapse/surrender and mortality assumptions reduce the expected future profitability of the underlying business and may increase the rate of DAC amortization. Management evaluates the appropriateness of the individual variable annuity DAC balance within pre-set parameters. These parameters are designed to appropriately reflect the Company’s long-term expectations with F-13 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respect to individual variable annuity contracts while also evaluating the potential impact of short-term experience on the Company’s recorded individual variable annuity DAC balance. If the recorded balance of individual variable annuity DAC falls outside of these parameters for a prescribed period of time, or if the recorded balance falls outside of these parameters and management determines it is not reasonably possible to get back within the parameters during this period of time, assumptions are required to be unlocked and DAC is recalculated using revised best estimate assumptions. If DAC assumptions were unlocked and revised, the Company would continue to use the reversion to the mean process. For other investment and universal life insurance products, DAC is adjusted each quarter to reflect revised best estimate assumptions, including the use of a reversion to the mean methodology over the next three years as it relates to net separate account performance. Any resulting DAC true-up and unlocking adjustments are reflected currently in the consolidated statements of income. (f) Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangible Assets As a result of the acquisition of NFN in 2002 and the application of purchase accounting, the Company reports an intangible asset representing the estimated fair value of the business in force and the portion of the purchase price that was allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the life insurance and annuity contracts existing as of the closing date of the NFN acquisition. The value assigned to VOBA was supported by an independent valuation study commissioned by the Company and executed by a team of qualified valuation experts, including actuarial consultants. The expected future cash flows used in determining such value were based on actuarially determined projections by major lines of business of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, changes in reserves, operating expenses, investment income and other factors. These projections considered all known or expected factors at the valuation date based on the judgment of management. The actual experience on purchased business, to some extent, has and may continue to vary from projections due to differences in renewal premiums, investment spreads, investment gains and losses, mortality and morbidity costs, or other factors. Amortization of VOBA occurs with interest over the anticipated lives of the major lines of business to which it relates (initially ranging from 13 to 30 years) in relation to estimated gross profits, gross margins or premiums, as appropriate. If estimated gross profits, gross margins or premiums differ from expectations, the amortization of VOBA is adjusted on a retrospective or prospective basis, as appropriate. The VOBA asset related to investment products and universal life insurance products is adjusted annually for the impact of net unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale had such gains and losses been realized and allocated to the product lines, as described in Note 2(b). The recoverability of VOBA is evaluated annually. If the evaluation indicates that the existing insurance liabilities, together with the present value of future net cash flows from the blocks of business acquired, is insufficient to recover VOBA, the difference, if any, is charged to expense as accelerated amortization of VOBA. For those products amortized in relation to estimated gross profits, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future gross profits include future net separate account performance, surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. The Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account performance is currently 8%. If actual net separate account performance varies from the 8% assumption, the Company assumes different performance levels over the next three years such that the mean return equals the long-term assumption. The assumed net separate account return assumptions used in the VOBA models are intended to reflect what is anticipated. However, based on historical returns of the S&P 500 Index, the Company’s reversion to the mean process generally limits returns to 0-15% during the three-year reversion period. F-14 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the amount of VOBA reported for all products and their related amortization patterns. In the event actual experience differs from assumptions or assumptions are revised, the Company is required to record an increase or decrease in VOBA amortization expense (VOBA unlocking), which could be significant. In general, increases in the estimated general and separate account returns result in increased expected future profitability and may lower the rate of VOBA amortization, while increases in lapse/surrender and mortality assumptions reduce the expected future profitability of the underlying business and may increase the rate of VOBA amortization. The use of discount rates was necessary to establish fair values of VOBA and other intangible assets acquired in the NFN transaction. In selecting the appropriate discount rates, management considered its weighted average cost of capital as well as the weighted average cost of capital required by market participants. In addition, consideration was given to the perceived risk of the assets acquired, which includes the expected growth and competitive profile of the life insurance market and the nature of the assumptions used in the valuation process. An after-tax discount rate of 11.0% was used to value VOBA, while after-tax discount rates ranging from 11.0% to 12.5% were used to value the other intangible assets acquired in the NFN transaction, as well as for net realized gains and losses, net of taxes, allocated to the closed block. Intangible assets include NFN’s career agency force, independent agency force, retirement services distribution channel, state licenses and certain other contracts and relationships. These intangible assets have been assigned values using various methodologies, including present value of projected future cash flows, analysis of similar transactions that have occurred or could be expected to occur in the market, and replacement or reproduction cost. Other factors considered in the valuation include the relative risk profile of each asset, the deterioration of the economic life, and the enhancement to other associated assets. The initial valuations of these intangible assets were also supported by an independent valuation study that was commissioned by the Company and executed by qualified valuation experts. The other identified intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which initially ranged from 5 to 22 years (weighted average 19 years), primarily based on the cash flows generated by these assets. (g) Goodwill In connection with acquisitions of operating entities, the Company recognizes the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter. Goodwill of a reporting unit also is tested for impairment on an interim basis in addition to the annual evaluation if an event occurs or circumstances change which would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The process of evaluating goodwill for impairment requires several judgments and assumptions to be made to determine the fair value of the reporting units, including the method used to determine fair value; discount rates; expected levels of cash flows, revenues and earnings; and the selection of comparable companies used to develop market-based assumptions. During the quarter ended September 30, 2006, the Company changed the timing of its annual goodwill impairment testing from the fourth quarter (based on September 30 financial information) to the third quarter (based on June 30 financial information). This change allows the Company to complete its annual goodwill impairment testing prior to its year-end closing activities for the current year and annual financial planning for F-15 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 the subsequent year. In addition, this change did not delay, accelerate or avoid an impairment charge. Accordingly, management believes that the accounting change described above is preferable under the circumstances. (h) Closed Block In connection with the sponsored demutualization of Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company (Provident) prior to its acquisition by the Company, Provident established a closed block for the benefit of certain classes of individual participating policies that had a dividend scale payable in 2001. Assets were allocated to the closed block in an amount that produces cash flows which, together with anticipated revenues from closed block business, is reasonably expected to be sufficient to provide for (1) payment of policy benefits, specified expenses and taxes, and (2) the continuation of dividends throughout the life of the Provident policies included in the closed block based upon the dividend scales payable for 2001, if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues. Assets allocated to the closed block inure solely to the benefit of the holders of the policies included in the closed block and will not revert to the benefit of the Company. No reallocation, transfer, borrowing or lending of assets can be made between the closed block and other portions of the Company’s general account, any of its separate accounts, or any affiliate of the Company without the approval of the Pennsylvania Insurance Department (PID). The closed block will remain in effect as long as any policy in the closed block is in force. If, over time, the aggregate performance of the closed block assets and policies is better than was assumed in funding the closed block, dividends to policyholders will be increased. If, over time, the aggregate performance of the closed block assets and policies is less favorable than was assumed in the funding, dividends to policyholders could be reduced. If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from the Company’s assets outside of the closed block. The assets and liabilities allocated to the closed block are recorded in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on the same basis as other similar assets and liabilities. The carrying amount of closed block liabilities in excess of the carrying amount of closed block assets at the date Provident was acquired by the Company represents the maximum future earnings from the assets and liabilities designated to the closed block that can be recognized in income, for the benefit of stockholders, over the period the policies in the closed block remain in force. If actual cumulative earnings exceed expected cumulative earnings, the expected earnings are recognized in income. This is because the excess cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings, which represents undistributed accumulated earnings attributable to policyholders, is recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. Therefore, the excess will be paid to closed block policyholders as an additional policyholder dividend in the future unless it is otherwise offset by future performance of the closed block that is less favorable than originally expected. If actual cumulative performance is less favorable than expected, actual earnings will be recognized in income. The principal cash flow items that affect the amount of closed block assets and liabilities are premiums, net investment income, purchases and sales of investments, policyholder benefits, policyholder dividends, premium taxes and income taxes. The principal income and expense items excluded from the closed block are management and maintenance expenses, commissions, net investment income, and realized investment gains and losses on investments held outside of the closed block that support the closed block business, all of which enter into the determination of total gross margins of closed block policies for the purpose of the amortization of VOBA. F-16 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (i) Separate Accounts Separate account assets and liabilities represent contractholders’ funds, which have been segregated into accounts with specific investment objectives. Separate account assets are recorded at fair value based primarily on market quotations of the underlying securities. The investment income and gains or losses of these accounts accrue directly to the contractholders. The activity of the separate accounts is not reflected in the consolidated statements of income except for (1) the fees the Company receives, which are assessed on a daily or monthly basis and recognized as revenue when assessed and earned, and (2) the activity related to guaranteed contracts, which are riders to existing variable annuity contracts. (j) Future Policy Benefits and Claims The process of calculating reserve amounts for a life insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with a company), mortality (the relative incidence of death in a given time), morbidity (the relative incidence of disability resulting from disease or physical impairment) and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). The Company calculates its liability for future policy benefits and claims for investment products in the accumulation phase and universal life and variable universal life insurance policies as the policy account balance, which represents participants’ net premiums and deposits plus investment performance and interest credited less applicable contract charges. The Company’s liability for funding agreements to an unrelated third party trust equals the balance that accrues to the benefit of the contractholder, including interest credited. The funding agreements constitute insurance obligations and are considered annuity contracts under Ohio insurance laws. The liability for future policy benefits and claims for traditional life insurance policies was calculated by the net level premium method using interest rates varying from 2.0% to 10.5% and estimates of mortality, morbidity, investment yields and withdrawals that were used or being experienced at the time the policies were issued. The liability for future policy benefits for payout annuities was calculated using the present value of future benefits and maintenance costs discounted using interest rates varying generally from 3.0% to 13.0%. (k) Participating Business Participating business, which refers to policies that participate in profits through policyholder dividends, represented approximately 8% of the Company’s life insurance in force in 2006 (10% in 2005 and 11% in 2004), 60% of the number of life insurance policies in force in 2006 (62% in 2005 and 64% in 2004) and 8% of life insurance statutory premiums in 2006 (9% in 2005 and 12% in 2004). The provision for policyholder dividends was based on then current dividend scales and has been included in future policy benefits and claims in the consolidated balance sheets. (l) Federal Income Taxes The Company provides for federal income taxes based on amounts the Company believes it ultimately will owe. Inherent in the provision for federal income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items and the realization of certain tax credits. In the event the ultimate deductibility of certain items or the realization F-17 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 of certain tax credits differs from estimates, the Company may be required to significantly change the provision for federal income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated statements of income. Management has used best estimates to establish reserves based on current facts and circumstances regarding tax exposure items where the ultimate deductibility is open to interpretation. Management evaluates the appropriateness of such reserves quarterly based on any new developments specific to their fact patterns. Information considered includes results of completed tax examinations, Technical Advice Memorandums and other rulings issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the tax courts. The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under this method, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established when it is determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. (m) Reinsurance Ceded Reinsurance premiums ceded and reinsurance recoveries on benefits and claims incurred are deducted from the respective income and expense accounts. Assets and liabilities related to reinsurance ceded are reported in the consolidated balance sheets on a gross basis, separately from the related balances of the Company. (n) Discontinued Operations During December 2006, the Company announced an agreement to sell The 401(k) Company for $115.0 million in cash, subject to a post-closing adjustment. The 401(k) Company provides administrative and record-keeping services to employers in the private sector for use in Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 401(k) retirement programs. The Company expects to record a gain on this transaction when it is finalized during the first quarter of 2007. Since this represents the Company’s exit from the large plan 401(k) market, the results of operations of The 401(k) Company are reflected as discontinued operations for 2006 and all prior years. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company decided to discontinue the following operations: (1) Cap Pro Holding, Inc. (Cap Pro), a majority-owned subsidiary of NFS that provided broker/dealer, registered investment advisor and insurance agency services to producers of certain certified public accounting firms; (2) Nationwide Financial Services (Bermuda), Ltd. (NFSB), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NFS that sold variable and fixed annuity products in offshore markets; and (3) William J. Lynch & Associates, Inc. (TBG Lynch), a wholly-owned subsidiary of TBG Financial that distributed BOLI products. The Company’s 2005 loss on discontinued operations, net of taxes, primarily consists of the following: (1) Cap Pro—$4.5 million; (2) NFSB—$8.3 million; and (3) TBG Lynch—$11.7 million. The results of operations of Cap Pro, NFSB and TBG Lynch are reflected as discontinued operations for 2005 and all prior years. During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, the Company decided to dispose of Cap Pro. The 2005 loss on discontinued operations related to Cap Pro primarily was due to a $10.8 million goodwill impairment charge. F-18 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 During December 2005, the Company sold its NFSB operations for $48.0 million in cash. The Company recorded a loss on the sale of $7.8 million, net of taxes. Also in December 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its TBG Lynch operations for a total of $10.2 million in cash and other consideration. As a result, the Company recorded a loss on the planned transaction of $11.7 million, net of taxes, primarily driven by the write-off of goodwill. The sale was finalized in February 2006. (o) Share-Based Payments Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), and began expensing at fair value on a straight-line basis the costs resulting from share-based payment transactions. The Company recorded share-based payment expense of $8.6 million ($5.6 million net of taxes, or $0.04 per basic and diluted common share) for the year ended December 31, 2006. Prior to 2006, the Company elected to follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25) and related interpretations in accounting for stock options granted to employees as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS 123), as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure. Under APB 25, the Company did not recognize share-based payment expense in its financial statements because the stock option awards qualified as fixed awards and the exercise price of the Company’s employee stock options equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. The following table summarizes the effect on net income and earnings per common share for the years ended December 31 if the Company had accounted for compensation cost for employee stock options in accordance with the fair value accounting method, as permitted by SFAS 123: (in millions, except per share amounts) 2005 2004 Net income, as reported $ 598.7 $ 502.0 Less total share-based payment expense determined under fair value method, net of taxes 7.9 7.5 Pro forma net income $ 590.8 $ 494.5 Earnings per common share: Basic, as reported $ 3.92 $ 3.30 Basic, pro forma 3.86 3.25 Diluted, as reported 3.90 3.28 Diluted, pro forma 3.85 3.23 The Third Amended and Restated Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Equity Compensation Plan (LTEP) covers selected employees, directors and agents of the Company and certain of its affiliates. The LTEP provides for the grant of any or all of the following types of stock-based compensation awards: (1) stock options for shares of Class A common stock; (2) restricted stock; (3) stock-based Nationwide value added (NVA) awards; (4) stock appreciation rights (SARs), either in tandem with stock options or freestanding; and (5) performance shares and performance units. The LTEP provides that it will remain in effect, subject to the right of the Company’s Board of Directors to terminate it sooner, until all shares subject to the LTEP have been delivered under awards. However, in no event may any LTEP award of incentive stock options F-19 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 be granted on or after February 27, 2012. The number of shares of Class A common stock that may be issued under the LTEP, or as to which SARs or other awards may be granted, currently may not exceed 20.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, 11.1 million shares of Class A common stock options have been granted. Shares issued upon option exercise are new shares not issued from treasury. Substantially all stock options (1) are non-qualified; (2) are granted with an exercise price at least equal to the fair value of shares on the grant date; (3) have a ten-year term; and (4) vest and become exercisable at the rate of one-third on each annual anniversary date of a three-year period of continued employment or upon retirement. In addition, all vested stock options are exercisable. Restricted stock awards are issued with a specific period of restriction varying by award as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (Compensation Committee). As of December 31, 2006, there were no outstanding NVA awards, SARs, performance shares or performance units payable in shares of Class A common stock. The following table summarizes the Company’s stock option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2006: Options onClass Acommonstock Weightedaverageexerciseprice Outstanding, beginning of period 7,634,265 $ 35.80 Granted 787,040 42.85 Exercised (2,235,142 ) 34.84 Cancelled (211,020 ) 41.68 Outstanding, end of period 5,975,143 36.88 Vested and exercisable, end of period 4,354,857 $ 35.75 As of December 31, 2006, vested and exercisable stock options had an aggregate intrinsic value of approximately $80.3 million with a weighted average remaining contractual term of approximately 4.9 years. Stock options exercised during 2006 had an aggregate intrinsic value of approximately $26.7 million. The following table summarizes information about nonvested employee stock options for the year ended December 31, 2006: Options onClass Acommonstock Weightedaveragegrant datefair value Nonvested, beginning of period 2,284,011 $ 9.92 Granted 787,040 14.06 Vested (1,369,336 ) 9.53 Cancelled (81,429 ) 11.55 Nonvested, end of period 1,620,286 12.18 As of December 31, 2006, the total share-based payment cost related to nonvested stock options not yet recognized was approximately $8.9 million. The weighted average period over which this cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1 year. F-20 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The fair values of stock options are estimated on the dates of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model. In accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 123R-2, Practical Accommodation to the Application of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement No. 123R (FSP FAS 123R-2), the total of 745,818 stock options awarded by the Compensation Committee in February and March 2006 were not considered granted for accounting purposes until April 2006 when the awards were communicated to recipients. Accordingly, the fair values of these awards were not estimated until the April 2006 effective grant date, and the related expense was recognized in the financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 2006. The following table summarizes the weighted average fair value of options granted and assumptions used to determine the fair value of options granted for the years ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 Fair value of options granted $ 14.06 $ 11.04 $ 10.49 Dividend yield 2.11 % 2.06 % 2.01 % Expected volatility 31.88 % 32.78 % 31.30 % Risk-free interest rate 4.92 % 3.78 % 3.14 % Expected life (years) 5.9 5.5 5.5 The dividend yield was estimated considering current dividends and stock prices. Expected volatility was estimated using a weighted average of the Company’s historical actual experience. The risk-free interest rate was estimated based on a U.S. Treasury Bond yield with a remaining term approximating that of the expected option life. The expected option life was estimated using a weighted average of the Company’s actual experience assuming that outstanding options were exercised at the midpoint of the remaining term. (p) Reclassification Certain items in the 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and related notes have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (3) Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, Including an amendment of FASB Statements No. 115 (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. SFAS 159 is expected to expand the use of fair value measurement, which is consistent with the FASB’s long-term measurement objectives for accounting for financial instruments. SFAS 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS 159 does not affect any existing accounting literature that requires certain assets and liabilities to be carried at fair value. In addition, SFAS 159 does not establish requirements for recognizing and measuring dividend income, interest income or interest expense, nor does it eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value measurements included in SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157), and SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company currently is evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 159. F-21 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset or liability on its balance sheet and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. SFAS 158 also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end balance sheet, with limited exceptions. An employer with publicly traded equity securities is required to initially recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan and to provide the required disclosures as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end balance sheet is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. If in the last quarter of the preceding fiscal year an employer enters into a transaction that results in a settlement or experiences an event that causes a curtailment of the plan, the related gain or loss pursuant to Statement 88 or 106 is required to be recognized in earnings that quarter. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157. SFAS 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 also provides guidance regarding the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value but does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. SFAS 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In September 2006, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108 (SAB 108). SAB 108 addresses how the effects of prior year uncorrected misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current-year financial statements. SAB 108 requires registrants to quantify misstatements using both the balance sheet and income-statement approaches and to evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying an error that is material in light of relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. SAB 108 does not change the SEC’s previous guidance in SAB No. 99 on evaluating the materiality of misstatements. A registrant applying the new guidance for the first time that identifies material errors in existence at the beginning of the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, may correct those errors through a one-time cumulative effect adjustment to beginning-of-year retained earnings. The cumulative effect alternative is available only if the application of the new guidance results in a conclusion that a material error exists as of the beginning of the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006, and those misstatements were determined to be immaterial based on a proper application of the registrant’s previous method for quantifying misstatements. Because of the beginning-of-year recognition of the cumulative effect adjustment, misstatements occurring in the year of adoption cannot be included in that adjustment. SAB 108 requires the following disclosures if a cumulative effect adjustment is recorded: the nature and amount of each individual error included in the cumulative effect adjustment; when and how each error arose; and the fact that the errors had previously been considered immaterial. The cumulative effect adjustment is available only for prior-year uncorrected misstatements. The adjustment should not include amounts related to changes in accounting estimates. SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the F-22 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company plans to adopt FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. FIN 48 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets (SFAS 156). SFAS 156 amends SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities (SFAS 140). SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. SFAS 156 permits, but does not require, the subsequent measurement of separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair value. An entity that uses derivative instruments to mitigate the risks inherent in servicing assets and servicing liabilities is required to account for those derivative instruments at fair value. Under SFAS 156, an entity can elect subsequent fair value measurement to account for its separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. By electing that option, an entity may simplify its accounting because SFAS 156 permits income statement recognition of the potential offsetting changes in fair value of those servicing assets and servicing liabilities and derivative instruments in the same accounting period. SFAS 156 is effective for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006, with early adoption permitted. The Company plans to adopt SFAS 156 effective January 1, 2007. SFAS 156 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments (SFAS 155). SFAS 155 amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133), and SFAS 140. SFAS 155 also resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets. In summary, SFAS 155: (1) permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to measure any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation at fair value in its entirety, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings; (2) clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (3) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation; (4) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives; and (5) amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. Earlier adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an entity’s fiscal year, provided the entity has not yet issued financial statements, including financial statements for any interim period for that fiscal year. Provisions of SFAS 155 may be applied to instruments that an entity holds at the date of adoption on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The Company elected to early adopt SFAS 155 as of January 1, 2006. On the date of adoption, there was no impact to the Company’s financial position or results of operations. In September 2005, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position (SOP) 05-1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts (SOP 05-1). SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal F-23 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments, issued by the FASB. SOP 05-1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occurs as a result of the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement or rider to a contract, or by the election of a new feature or coverage within a contract. SOP 05-1 is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with earlier adoption encouraged. Retrospective application of SOP 05-1 to previously issued financial statements is not permitted. Initial application of SOP 05-1 is required as of the beginning of an entity’s fiscal year. The Company will adopt SOP 05-1 effective January 1, 2007. Although the Company is currently unable to quantify the impact of adoption, SOP 05-1 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position and/or results of operations. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (SFAS 154), which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle as well as to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, with earlier adoption permitted. The Company adopted SFAS 154 effective January 1, 2006. SFAS 154 has not had any impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations since adoption. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which replaces SFAS 123, and supersedes APB 25. SFAS 123R requires companies to expense at fair value all costs resulting from share-based payment transactions, except for equity instruments held by employee share ownership plans. SFAS 123R also amended SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows, to require excess tax benefits to be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. In March 2005, the SEC issued SAB No. 107, which summarizes the views of the SEC regarding the interaction between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides the SEC’s views on the valuation of share-based payments for public companies. The Company considered this guidance in its adoption of SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R as issued by the FASB was to be effective for the Company as of the beginning of the first reporting period that began after June 15, 2005. However, in April 2005, the SEC adopted a rule that amended the effective date of SFAS 123R. The SEC’s new rule allowed companies to implement SFAS 123R at the beginning of their next fiscal year, instead of the next reporting period, beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS 123R effective January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method. See Note 2(o) for a complete discussion of the Company’s share-based payments. In October 2006, the FASB issued FSP FAS 123R-6, Technical Corrections of FASB Statement No. 123R (FSP FAS 123R-6). This FSP addresses certain technical corrections of SFAS 123R. The Company will apply the provisions in this FSP beginning January 1, 2007. FSP FAS 123R-6 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. In October 2006, the FASB issued FSP FAS 123R-5, An Amendment of FSP FAS 123R-1 (FSP FAS 123R-5). This FSP addresses whether a modification of an instrument in connection with an equity restructuring should be considered a modification for purposes of applying FSP FAS 123R-1, Classification and Measurement of Freestanding Financial Instruments Originally Issued in Exchange for Employee Services under FASB Statement No. 123R. The Company will apply the provisions in this FSP beginning January 1, 2007. FSP FAS 123R-5 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations upon adoption. F-24 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 123R-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards (FSP FAS 123R-3). This FSP provides a practical transition election related to accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees. An entity can elect to follow the transition guidance for the additional paid-in capital pool in SFAS 123R or the alternative transition method described in this FSP. An entity that adopts SFAS 123R using either modified retrospective or modified prospective application may make a one-time election to adopt the transition method described in this FSP. The Company elected to use the alternative transition method effective January 1, 2006. The Company’s adoption of FSP FAS 123R-3 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 123R-2. This FSP is a practical accommodation in determining the grant date of an award subject to SFAS 123R, assuming all other criteria in the grant date definition have been met. According to this FSP, a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of an award to an individual employee will be presumed to exist at the date the award is approved in accordance with the relevant corporate governance requirements (that is, by the Board or management with the relevant authority) if certain conditions are met. The Company adopted FSP FAS 123R-2 effective January 1, 2006. FSP FAS 123R-2 has not had a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. See Note 2(o) for a discussion of the impact of FSP FAS 123R-2 on 2006 grants. In July 2003, the AICPA issued SOP 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03-1) to address many topics. The most significant topic affecting the Company was the accounting for contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB). SOP 03-1 requires companies to evaluate the significance of a GMDB to determine whether a contract should be accounted for as an investment or insurance contract. For contracts determined to be insurance contracts, companies are required to establish a reserve to recognize a portion of the assessment (revenue) that compensates the insurance company for benefits to be provided in future periods. The Company adopted SOP 03-1 effective January 1, 2004, which resulted in a $3.4 million charge, net of taxes, as the cumulative effect of adoption of this accounting principle. The following table summarizes the components of cumulative effect adjustments recorded in the Company’s 2004 consolidated statements of income: (in millions) January 1, 2004 Increase in future policy benefits: Ratchet interest crediting $ (12.3 ) Secondary guarantees—life insurance (2.4 ) GMDB claim reserves (2.0 ) GMIB claim reserves (0.4 ) Subtotal (17.1 ) Adjustment to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to above 11.9 Deferred federal income taxes 1.8 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principle, net of taxes $ (3.4 ) F-25 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (4) Fair Value of Financial Instruments The following disclosures summarize the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments. Certain assets and liabilities are specifically excluded from the disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the financial instrument could be bought or sold, or in the case of liabilities incurred or settled, in a current transaction between willing parties. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based on the best information available in the circumstances. Such estimates of fair value should consider prices for similar assets or similar liabilities and the results of valuation techniques to the extent available in the circumstances. Examples of valuation techniques include the present value of estimated expected future cash flows using discount rates commensurate with the risks involved, option-pricing models, matrix pricing, option-adjusted spread models and fundamental analysis. Valuation techniques for measuring assets and liabilities must be consistent with the objective of measuring fair value and should incorporate assumptions that market participants would use in their estimates of values, future revenues and future expenses, including assumptions about interest rates, default, prepayment and volatility. Many of the Company’s assets and liabilities subject to these disclosure requirements are not actively traded, requiring fair values to be estimated by management using matrix pricing, present value or other suitable valuation techniques. These techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. Although fair value estimates are calculated using assumptions that management believes are appropriate, changes in assumptions could cause these estimates to vary materially. In that regard, the derived fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets and, in many cases, could not be realized in the immediate settlement of the instruments. Although insurance contracts are specifically exempted from the disclosure requirements (other than those that are classified as investment contracts), the Company’s estimate of the fair values of policy reserves on life insurance contracts is provided to make the fair value disclosures more meaningful. The tax ramifications of the related unrealized gains and losses can have a significant effect on the estimates of fair value and have not been considered in arriving at such estimates. In estimating its fair value disclosures, the Company used the following methods and assumptions: Fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale and trading assets: See Note 2(b). Mortgage loans on real estate, net: The fair values of mortgage loans on real estate are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on interest rates currently being offered for similar loans to borrowers with similar credit ratings. Loans with similar characteristics are aggregated for purposes of the calculations. Estimated fair value is based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. Policy loans, short-term investments and cash: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for these instruments approximate their fair values. Separate account assets and liabilities: The fair values of assets held in separate accounts are based on quoted market prices of the underlying securities. The fair values of liabilities related to separate accounts are the amounts payable on demand, net of certain surrender charges. F-26 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Investment contracts: The fair values of the Company’s liabilities under investment type contracts are based on one of two methods. For investment contracts without defined maturities, fair value is the amount payable on demand, net of certain surrender charges. For investment contracts with known or determined maturities, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis. Interest rates used in this analysis are similar to currently offered contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued. Policy reserves on life insurance contracts: Included are disclosures for individual life insurance, COLI, BOLI, universal life insurance and supplementary contracts with life contingencies for which the estimated fair value is the amount payable on demand. Also included are disclosures for the Company’s limited payment policies for which the Company has used discounted cash flow analyses to estimate fair value, similar to those used for investment contracts with known maturities. Short-term debt, collateral received—securities lending and collateral received—derivatives: The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for these instruments approximate their fair values. Long-term debt: The fair values for senior notes are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of the junior subordinated debentures issued to a related party are based on quoted market prices of the capital securities of Nationwide Financial Services Capital Trust I (Trust I), which approximate the fair value of this obligation. Commitments to extend credit: Commitments to extend credit have nominal fair values because of the short-term nature of such commitments. Interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps: The fair values for interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps are calculated with pricing models using current rate assumptions. Interest rate futures contracts: The fair values for futures contracts are based on quoted market prices. Other derivatives: The fair values for other derivatives are based on credit event probabilities, equity option index levels and broker valuations. F-27 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair values of financial instruments subject to disclosure requirements and policy reserves on life insurance contracts as of December 31: 2006 2005 (in millions) Carryingvalue Estimatedfair value Carryingvalue Estimatedfair value Assets Investments: Securities available-for-sale: Fixed maturity securities $ 28,160.0 $ 28,160.0 $ 30,106.0 $ 30,106.0 Equity securities 67.6 67.6 75.6 75.6 Trading assets 24.3 24.3 34.4 34.4 Mortgage loans on real estate, net 8,909.8 8,821.5 9,148.6 9,181.5 Policy loans 966.9 966.9 930.6 930.6 Short-term investments 2,215.6 2,215.6 2,073.2 2,073.2 Cash 20.2 20.2 16.4 16.4 Assets held in separate accounts 70,694.7 70,694.7 65,963.8 65,963.8 Liabilities Investment contracts (28,392.9 ) (26,610.2 ) (30,035.3 ) (27,825.9 ) Policy reserves on life insurance contracts (9,704.9 ) (9,371.5 ) (9,712.8 ) (9,477.2 ) Short-term debt (85.2 ) (85.2 ) (252.3 ) (252.3 ) Long-term debt (1,398.5 ) (1,437.5 ) (1,398.0 ) (1,466.5 ) Collateral received—securities lending and derivatives (1,070.5 ) (1,070.5 ) (1,431.4 ) (1,431.4 ) Liabilities related to separate accounts (70,694.7 ) (69,262.2 ) (65,963.8 ) (64,518.1 ) Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps hedging assets 4.2 4.2 3.3 3.3 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 66.1 66.1 178.5 178.5 Interest rate futures contracts (2.4 ) (2.4 ) 1.6 1.6 Other derivatives 128.2 128.2 41.1 41.1 (5) Derivative Financial Instruments Qualitative Disclosures Interest Rate Risk Management The Company periodically purchases fixed rate investments to back variable rate liabilities. As a result, the Company can be exposed to interest rate risk due to the mismatch between variable rate liabilities and fixed rate assets. In an effort to mitigate this risk, the Company enters into various types of derivative instruments to minimize this mismatch, with fluctuations in the fair values of the derivatives offsetting changes in the fair values of the investments resulting from changes in interest rates. The Company principally uses pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swaps to manage this risk. Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives variable interest rate payments and makes fixed rate payments. The fixed interest paid on the swap offsets the fixed interest received on the investment, resulting in the Company receiving the variable interest payments on the swap, generally 3-month U.S. London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and the credit spread on the investment. The net receipt of a variable rate will then match the variable rate paid on the liability. F-28 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 As a result of entering into commercial mortgage loan and private placement commitments, the Company is exposed to changes in the fair value of such commitments due to changes in interest rates during the commitment period prior to the loans being funded. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company enters into short U.S. Treasury futures during the commitment period. With short U.S. Treasury futures, if interest rates rise/fall, the gains/losses on the futures will offset the change in fair value of the commitment attributable to the change in interest rates. The Company periodically purchases variable rate investments (i.e., commercial mortgage loans and corporate bonds). As a result, the Company can be exposed to variability in cash flows and investment income due to changes in interest rates. Such variability poses risks to the Company when the assets are funded with fixed rate liabilities. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company may enter into receive fixed/pay variable interest rate swaps. In using these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed interest rate payments and makes variable rate payments. The variable interest paid on the swap offsets the variable interest received on the investment, resulting in the Company receiving the fixed interest payments on the swap and the credit spread on the investment. The net receipt of a fixed rate will then match the fixed rate paid on the liability. The Company manages interest rate risk at the segment level. Different segments may simultaneously hedge interest rate risks associated with owning fixed and variable rate investments considering the risk relevant to a particular segment. Foreign Currency Risk Management In conjunction with the Company’s medium-term note (MTN) program, the Company periodically issues both fixed and variable rate liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, the Company is exposed to changes in fair value of the liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and related interest rates. In an effort to manage these risks, the Company enters into cross-currency interest rate swaps to convert these liabilities to a U.S. dollar rate. The Company is exposed to changes in fair value of fixed rate investments denominated in a foreign currency due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and related interest rates. In an effort to manage this risk, the Company uses cross-currency interest rate hedges to swap these asset characteristics to variable U.S. dollar rate instruments. Cross-currency interest rate swaps on assets are structured to pay a fixed rate, in the foreign currency, and receive a variable U.S. dollar rate, generally 3-month U.S. LIBOR. These derivative instruments are designated as a fair value hedge of the fixed rate foreign denominated asset. For a variable rate foreign liability, the cross-currency interest rate swap is structured to receive a variable rate, in the foreign currency, and pay a variable U.S. dollar rate, generally 3-month U.S. LIBOR. As both sides of the cross-currency interest rate swap are variable, the derivative instrument is a basis swap. While the receive-side terms of the cross-currency interest rate swap will line up with the terms of the liability, the Company is not able to match the pay-side terms of the derivative to a specific asset. Therefore, these derivative instruments do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Cross-currency interest rate swaps on variable rate investments are structured to pay a variable rate, in the foreign currency, and receive a fixed U.S. dollar rate. The terms of the foreign currency paid on the swap will exactly match the terms of the foreign currency received on the asset, thus eliminating currency risk. These derivative instruments are designated as a cash flow hedge. F-29 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Equity Market Risk Management Asset fees calculated as a percentage of the separate account assets are a significant source of revenue to the Company. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 83% of separate account assets were invested in equity mutual funds (approximately 83% as of December 31, 2005). Gains and losses in the equity markets result in corresponding increases and decreases in the Company’s separate account assets and asset fee revenue. In addition, a decrease in separate account assets may decrease the Company’s expectations of future profit margins due to a decrease in asset fee revenue and/or an increase in guaranteed contract claims, which also may require the Company to accelerate the amortization of DAC. The Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account returns is 8% annual growth. If equity markets were unchanged throughout a given year, the Company estimates that its net earnings per diluted share, calculated using current weighted average diluted shares outstanding, would be approximately $0.05 to $0.10 less than had the Company’s long-term assumption for net separate account returns been realized. This analysis assumes no other factors change and that an unlocking of DAC assumptions would not be required. However, as it does each quarter, the Company would evaluate its DAC balance and underlying assumptions to determine whether unlocking is appropriate. The Company can provide no assurance that the experience of flat equity market returns would not result in changes to other factors affecting profitability, including the possibility of unlocking of DAC assumptions. Many of the Company’s individual variable annuity contracts offer GMDB features. A GMDB generally provides a benefit if the annuitant dies and the contract value is less than a specified amount, which may be based on the premiums paid less amounts withdrawn or contract value on a specified anniversary date. A decline in the stock market causing the contract value to fall below this specified amount, which varies from contract to contract based on the date the contract was entered into as well as the GMDB feature elected, will increase the net amount at risk, which is the GMDB in excess of the contract value. This could result in additional GMDB claims. In an effort to mitigate this risk, the Company has implemented a GMDB economic hedging program for certain new and existing business. Prior to implementation of the GMDB hedging program in 2000, the Company managed this risk primarily by entering into reinsurance arrangements. The GMDB economic hedging program is designed to offset changes in the economic value of the GMDB obligation up to a return of the contractholder’s premium payments. However, the first 10% of GMDB claims are not hedged. Currently the program shorts S&P 500 Index futures, which provides an offset to changes in the value of the designated obligation. The futures are not designated as hedges and, therefore, hedge accounting is not applied. The Company’s economic evaluation of the GMDB obligation is not consistent with current accounting treatment of the GMDB obligation. Therefore, the hedging activity is likely to lead to earnings volatility. This volatility was negligible in 2006. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the net amount at risk was $574.3 million and $1.10 billion before reinsurance, respectively, and $122.2 million and $184.3 million net of reinsurance, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s reserve for GMDB claims was $29.6 million and $27.2 million, respectively. See Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for discussion of the impact of adopting a new accounting principle regarding GMDB reserves in 2004. The Company also offers certain variable annuity products with a guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB) rider. A GMAB provides the contractholder with a guaranteed return of premium, adjusted proportionately for withdrawals, after a specified period of time (5, 7 or 10 years) selected by the contractholder at the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract. In some cases, the contractholder also has the option, after a specified period of time, to drop the rider and continue the variable annuity contract without the GMAB. F-30 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The design of the GMAB rider limits the risk to the Company in a variety of ways including asset allocation requirements, which serve to reduce the Company’s potential exposure to underlying fund performance risks. Specifically, the GMAB terms limit asset allocation by (1) requiring partial allocation of assets to a guaranteed term option (a fixed rate investment option) and excluding certain funds that are highly volatile or difficult to hedge or (2) requiring all assets be allocated to one of the approved asset allocation funds or models defined by the Company. A GMAB represents an embedded derivative in the variable annuity contract that is required to be separated from, and valued apart from, the host variable annuity contract. The embedded derivative is carried at fair value and reported in other future policy benefits and claims. The Company initially records an offset to the fair value of the embedded derivative on the balance sheet, which is amortized through the income statement over the term of the GMAB period of the contract. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative are recognized in earnings. The fair value of the GMAB embedded derivative is calculated based on actuarial assumptions related to the projected benefit cash flows incorporating numerous assumptions including, but not limited to, expectations of contractholder persistency, market returns, correlations of market returns and market return volatility. The Company began selling contracts with the GMAB feature on May 1, 2003. Beginning October 1, 2003, the Company launched an enhanced version of the rider that offered increased equity exposure to the contractholder in return for a higher charge. The Company simultaneously began economically hedging the GMAB exposure for those risks that exceed a level it considered acceptable. The GMAB economic hedge consists of shorting interest rate futures and S&P 500 Index futures contracts and does not qualify for hedge accounting under current guidance. Quarterly, the Company purchases S&P 500 Index put options and over-the-counter basket put options, which are constructed in order to minimize the tracking error of the hedge and the GMAB liability. See Note 2(c) to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the F pages of this report for discussion of economic hedges. The objective of the GMAB economic hedge strategy is to manage the exposures with risk beyond a level considered acceptable to the Company. The Company is exposed to equity market risk related to the GMAB feature should the growth in the underlying investments, including any GTO investment, fail to reach the guaranteed return level. The GMAB embedded derivative is likely to create volatility in earnings; however, the economic hedging program provides substantial mitigation of this exposure. This volatility was negligible in 2006 and 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the balance of the GMAB embedded derivative was $116.3 million and $67.9 million, respectively. The increase in the balance of the GMAB embedded derivative was driven by the value of new business sold during 2006. Beginning in March 2005, the Company began offering a hybrid GMAB/guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit (GLWB) through its Capital Preservation Plus Lifetime Income (CPPLI) contract rider. This living benefit combines a GMAB feature in its first 5-10 years with a lifetime withdrawal benefit which begins upon the maturity of the GMAB and extends for the duration of the insured’s life. In the event that the insured’s contract value is exhausted through such withdrawals, the Company will continue to fund future withdrawals at a pre-defined level until the insured’s death. In some cases, the contract owner has the right to drop the GLWB portion of this rider or periodically reset the guaranteed withdrawal basis to a higher level. This benefit requires a minimum allocation to guaranteed term options or adherence to limitations required by an approved asset allocation strategy as previously described above. In March 2006, the Company added Lifetime Income (LINC), a stand-alone GLWB, to compliment CPPLI in its product offerings. This rider is very similar to the hybrid benefit discussed above. LINC provides for enhanced retirement income security via guaranteed accumulation rates and withdrawal rates that increase with age without the liquidity loss associated with annuitization. The lifetime withdrawal feature also is being economically hedged. Currently, the Company is using S&P 500 Index and U.S. Treasury futures to hedge exposure to declining equity and interest rate markets, respectively. Similar to GMDBs, the Company’s economic valuation of the lifetime income obligation is not consistent with the accounting treatment of the obligation. Therefore, hedging activity is likely to create volatility in earnings; however, the economic hedging program provides substantial mitigation of this exposure. This volatility was negligible in 2006. Other Non-Hedging Derivatives The Company periodically enters into basis swaps (receive one variable rate, pay another variable rate) to better match the cash flows received from the specific variable-rate investments with the variable rate paid on a F-31 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 group of liabilities. While the pay-side terms of the basis swap will line up with the terms of the asset, the Company is not able to match the receive-side terms of the derivative to a specific liability. Therefore, basis swaps do not receive hedge accounting treatment. The Company sells credit default protection on selected debt instruments and combines the credit default swap with selected assets the Company owns to replicate a higher yielding bond. These selected assets may have sufficient duration for the related liability, but do not earn a sufficient credit spread. The combined credit default swap and investments provide cash flows with the duration and credit spread targeted by the Company. The credit default swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The Company also has purchased credit default protection on selected debt instruments exposed to short-term credit concerns, or because the combination of the corporate bond and purchased default protection provides sufficient spread and duration targeted by the Company. The purchased credit default protection does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Quantitative Disclosure Fair Value Hedges During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, a net gain of $2.9 million, a net gain of $4.1 million and a net loss of $11.3 million, respectively, were recognized in net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items. This represents the ineffective portion of the fair value hedging relationships. There were no gains or losses attributable to the portion of the derivative instruments’ changes in fair value excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were also no gains or losses recognized in earnings as a result of hedged firm commitments no longer qualifying as fair value hedges. Cash Flow Hedges For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges was a net loss of $1.5 million, a net gain of $3.2 million and a net gain of $0.8 million, respectively. There were no net gains or losses attributable to the portion of the derivative instruments’ changes in fair value excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The Company anticipates reclassifying less than $0.8 million in net losses out of AOCI over the next 12-month period. In general, the maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows associated with forecasted transactions, other than those relating to variable interest on existing financial instruments, is twelve months or less. Immediately prior to the sale of NFSB in 2005, the Company sold two variable rate bonds whose future cash flows had been designated as the forecasted transactions in two cash flow hedging relationships. As the forecasted transactions were probable not to occur, the Company ceased accounting for the derivatives as cash flow hedging instruments as of the date the bonds were sold and reclassified the derivative loss from AOCI to earnings, resulting in a $3.9 million realized loss. Since these bonds were sold as a direct result of the sale of NFSB, and because business disposals are infrequent, the Company does not believe that its ability to accurately forecast similar future transactions is affected. F-32 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 During 2006, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges because the original forecasted transaction was no longer probable. Additionally, no amounts were reclassified from AOCI into earnings due to the probability that a forecasted transaction would not occur. Other Derivative Instruments, Including Embedded Derivatives Net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included a net loss of $0.5 million, a net loss of $9.1 million and a net gain of $9.1 million, respectively, related to other derivative instruments, including embedded derivatives, not designated in hedging relationships. In addition, the Individual Investments segment included a loss of $11.4 million and a gain of $5.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to other derivative instruments, including embedded derivatives, not designated in hedging relationships. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, net losses of $10.6 million, $80.7 million and $5.9 million, respectively, were recorded in net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items reflecting the change in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps hedging variable rate MTNs denominated in foreign currencies. Additional net gains of $14.1 million, $78.3 million and $5.9 million were recorded in net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items to reflect the change in spot rates of these foreign currency denominated obligations during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative financial instruments outstanding as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Interest rate swaps: Pay fixed/receive variable rate swaps hedging investments $ 1,930.5 $ 2,040.1 Pay variable/receive fixed rate swaps hedging investments 60.4 79.2 Pay variable/receive fixed rate swaps hedging liabilities — 550.0 Pay variable/receive variable rate swaps hedging liabilities — 30.0 Pay fixed/receive variable rate swaps hedging liabilities 1,048.8 170.0 Other contracts hedging investments — 10.0 Cross-currency interest rate swaps: Hedging foreign currency denominated investments 452.9 439.8 Hedging foreign currency denominated liabilities 1,137.1 1,312.4 Credit default swaps and other non-hedging instruments 478.6 555.3 Equity option contracts 1,640.7 774.4 Interest rate futures contracts 214.2 120.5 Total $ 6,963.2 $ 6,081.7 F-33 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (6) Investments The following table summarizes the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and estimated fair values of securities available-for-sale as of the dates indicated: (in millions) Amortizedcost Grossunrealizedgains Grossunrealizedlosses Estimatedfair value December 31, 2006: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations $ 179.0 $ 12.2 $ 2.1 $ 189.1 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 564.5 46.2 2.3 608.4 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 274.7 0.7 7.4 268.0 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 36.2 1.7 0.2 37.7 Corporate securities Public 9,732.8 220.0 127.4 9,825.4 Private 6,605.1 131.5 83.8 6,652.8 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 6,946.0 23.8 122.8 6,847.0 Asset-backed securities 3,728.9 45.5 42.8 3,731.6 Total fixed maturity securities 28,067.2 481.6 388.8 28,160.0 Equity securities 57.2 11.0 0.6 67.6 Total securities available-for-sale $ 28,124.4 $ 492.6 $ 389.4 $ 28,227.6 December 31, 2005: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies $ 197.1 $ 14.4 $ 1.2 $ 210.3 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 882.3 61.2 6.7 936.8 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 314.5 2.4 3.9 313.0 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 42.7 2.7 0.1 45.3 Corporate securities Public 10,728.5 302.0 122.0 10,908.5 Private 7,199.3 200.7 77.5 7,322.5 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 6,824.7 21.3 117.0 6,729.0 Asset-backed securities 3,641.7 44.2 45.3 3,640.6 Total fixed maturity securities 29,830.8 648.9 373.7 30,106.0 Equity securities 64.8 11.2 0.4 75.6 Total securities available-for-sale $ 29,895.6 $ 660.1 $ 374.1 $ 30,181.6 F-34 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The table below summarizes the amortized cost and estimated fair values of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, by maturity, as of December 31, 2006. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. (in millions) Amortizedcost Estimatedfair value Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale: Due in one year or less $ 1,561.3 $ 1,572.6 Due after one year through five years 7,022.1 7,072.1 Due after five years through ten years 5,191.9 5,225.0 Due after ten years 3,617.0 3,711.7 Subtotal 17,392.3 17,581.4 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 6,946.0 6,847.0 Asset-backed securities 3,728.9 3,731.6 Total $ 28,067.2 $ 28,160.0 The following table presents the components of net unrealized gains on securities available-for-sale, as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Net unrealized gains, before adjustments and taxes $ 103.2 $ 286.0 Adjustment to DAC 83.3 42.8 Adjustment to VOBA (6.6 ) 6.8 Adjustment to future policy benefits and claims (86.8 ) (109.9 ) Adjustment to policyholder dividend obligation (16.0 ) (30.7 ) Deferred federal income taxes (27.1 ) (68.3 ) Net unrealized gains $ 50.0 $ 126.7 The following table presents an analysis of the net decrease in net unrealized gains on securities available-for-sale before adjustments and taxes for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturity securities $ (182.4 ) $ (818.4 ) $ (130.6 ) Equity securities (0.4 ) (3.1 ) 2.2 Net change $ (182.8 ) $ (821.5 ) $ (128.4 ) F-35 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes by time the gross unrealized losses on securities available-for-sale in an unrealized loss position as of the dates indicated: Less than or equal toone year More Than one year Total (in millions) Estimatedfair value Grossunrealizedlosses Estimatedfair value Grossunrealizedlosses Estimatedfair value Grossunrealizedlosses December 31, 2006: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations $ 66.5 $ 1.0 $ 29.9 $ 1.1 $ 96.4 $ 2.1 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 31.7 0.1 125.2 2.2 156.9 2.3 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 84.5 1.0 161.9 6.4 246.4 7.4 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 12.8 0.1 1.3 0.1 14.1 0.2 Corporate securities Public 2,627.7 27.8 3,525.8 99.6 6,153.5 127.4 Private 1,288.6 15.0 2,165.1 68.8 3,453.7 83.8 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 966.9 7.6 4,194.0 115.2 5,160.9 122.8 Asset-backed securities 580.2 4.5 1,475.0 38.3 2,055.2 42.8 Total fixed maturity securities 5,658.9 57.1 11,678.2 331.7 17,337.1 388.8 Equity securities 17.6 0.3 3.4 0.3 21.0 0.6 Total $ 5,676.5 $ 57.4 $ 11,681.6 $ 332.0 $ 17,358.1 $ 389.4 % of gross unrealized losses 15 % 85 % December 31, 2005: Fixed maturity securities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies $ 37.4 $ 0.8 $ 11.6 $ 0.4 $ 49.0 $ 1.2 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 329.2 5.4 42.2 1.3 371.4 6.7 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 157.8 3.1 29.7 0.8 187.5 3.9 Debt securities issued by foreign governments 8.6 0.1 — — 8.6 0.1 Corporate securities Public 3,731.0 73.4 1,247.0 48.6 4,978.0 122.0 Private 1,957.3 46.5 767.7 31.0 2,725.0 77.5 Mortgage-backed securities—U.S. Government-backed 4,526.2 96.0 702.9 21.0 5,229.1 117.0 Asset-backed securities 1,516.4 28.2 490.2 17.1 2,006.6 45.3 Total fixed maturity securities 12,263.9 253.5 3,291.3 120.2 15,555.2 373.7 Equity securities 20.8 0.4 — — 20.8 0.4 Total $ 12,284.7 $ 253.9 $ 3,291.3 $ 120.2 $ 15,576.0 $ 374.1 % of gross unrealized losses 68 % 32 % F-36 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Increases in unrealized losses more than one year are primarily due to changes in the interest rate environment. Those securities are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired because the decline in market value is attributed to changes in interest rates and not credit quality, and because the Company has the ability and intent to hold those investments until recovery. Proceeds from the sale of securities available-for-sale during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $2.65 billion, $3.48 billion and $3.77 billion, respectively. During 2006, gross gains of $66.6 million ($88.5 million and $92.3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively) and gross losses of $71.2 million ($24.1 million and $13.4 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively) were realized on those sales. The Company had $5.1 million and $22.2 million of real estate investments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, that were non-income producing during the preceding twelve months. Real estate held for use is presented at cost less accumulated depreciation of $20.5 million as of December 31, 2006 ($24.5 million as of December 31, 2005). The carrying value of real estate held for sale totaled $43.5 million and $2.5 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The recorded investment of mortgage loans on real estate considered to be impaired was $17.5 million as of December 31, 2006 ($34.5 million as of December 31, 2005), for which the related valuation allowance was $12.3 million ($9.4 million as of December 31, 2005). Impaired mortgage loans with no valuation allowance are a result of collateral dependent loans where the fair value of the collateral is estimated to be greater than the recorded investment of the loan. During 2006, the average recorded investment in impaired mortgage loans on real estate was $3.5 million ($9.9 million in 2005). Interest income on those loans, which is recognized on a cash basis, totaled $1.9 million in 2006 ($2.1 million in 2005). The following table summarizes activity in the valuation allowance account for mortgage loans on real estate for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Allowance, beginning of period $ 35.1 $ 36.9 $ 32.4 Net additions (reductions) to allowance 0.9 (1.8 ) 4.5 Allowance, end of period $ 36.0 $ 35.1 $ 36.9 The following table summarizes net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items from continuing operations by source for the periods indicated: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Total realized gains on sales, net of hedging losses 98.7 98.5 100.9 Total realized losses on sales, net of hedging gains (75.6 ) (28.7 ) (29.9 ) Total other-than-temporary and other investment impairments (16.8 ) (41.2 ) (103.3 ) Credit default swaps (1.1 ) (7.5 ) 0.3 Periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives 1.9 1.0 6.5 Other derivatives (0.6 ) 1.2 (5.1 ) Trading portfolio valuation gain — 0.4 0.8 Total realized gains (losses) before adjustments 6.5 23.7 (29.8 ) Amounts credited to policyholder dividend obligation 0.1 (5.2 ) (7.0 ) Other 2.5 2.3 4.6 Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items $ 9.1 $ 20.8 $ (32.2 ) F-37 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes net investment income from continuing operations by investment type for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Securities available-for-sale: Fixed maturity securities $ 1,582.4 $ 1,628.8 $ 1,630.6 Equity securities 3.5 4.4 1.3 Trading assets 2.1 2.2 0.2 Mortgage loans on real estate 577.7 619.5 615.1 Real estate 17.8 16.5 17.7 Short-term investments 56.6 23.5 11.1 Derivatives (1.9 ) (31.0 ) (94.3 ) Other 132.9 143.2 108.1 Gross investment income 2,371.1 2,407.1 2,289.8 Less investment expenses 72.6 63.2 58.1 Net investment income $ 2,298.5 $ 2,343.9 $ 2,231.7 Fixed maturity securities with an amortized cost of $21.7 million and $30.2 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were on deposit with various regulatory agencies as required by law. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had not pledged any fixed maturity securities as collateral to various derivative counterparties compared to $8.6 million as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had received $886.7 million and $1.17 billion, respectively, of cash collateral on securities lending and $171.0 million and $203.3 million, respectively, of cash for derivative collateral. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had not received any non-cash collateral on securities lending compared to $5.9 million as of December 31, 2005. Both the cash and non-cash collateral amounts are included in short-term investments with a corresponding liability recorded in other liabilities. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had loaned securities with a fair value of $859.9 million and $1.14 billion, respectively. The Company also held $12.8 million and $53.2 million of securities as off-balance sheet collateral on derivative transactions as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (7) Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangible Assets The following table presents a reconciliation of VOBA for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of period $ 449.7 $ 480.4 Amortization of VOBA (46.0 ) (45.0 ) Net realized losses on investments 2.4 2.3 Subtotal 406.1 437.7 Change in unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities (13.4 ) 12.0 Balance at end of period $ 392.7 $ 449.7 Interest on the unamortized VOBA balance (at interest rates ranging from 4.50% to 7.56%) is included in amortization and was $27.5 million, $30.3 million and $33.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. F-38 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes intangible assets as of December 31: 2006 2005 (in millions) Initialusefullife1 Grosscarryingamount Accumulatedamortization Grosscarryingamount Accumulatedamortization Amortizing: VOBA 28 years $ 594.9 $ 195.6 $ 594.9 $ 152.1 Distribution forces 20 years 30.4 2.6 30.4 1.6 Other 14 years 14.9 7.1 14.6 5.8 Total amortizing intangible assets 640.2 205.3 639.9 159.5 Non-amortizing: State insurance licenses Indefinite 8.0 — 8.0 — Total intangible assets $ 648.2 $ 205.3 $ 647.9 $ 159.5 1 The initial useful life was based on applicable assumptions. Actual periods are subject to revision based on variances from assumptions and other relevant factors. The state insurance licenses have indefinite lives and therefore are not amortized. The Company’s annual impairment testing did not result in material impairment losses on existing intangible assets during 2006, 2005 and 2004. Based on current assumptions, which are subject to change, the following table summarizes estimated amortization for the next five years ended December 31: (in millions) VOBA Intangibleassets withfinite lives Totalintangibleassets 2007 36.8 2.0 38.8 2008 33.8 1.9 35.7 2009 32.0 2.0 34.0 2010 26.4 2.2 28.6 2011 24.7 2.3 27.0 (8) Goodwill The following table summarizes changes in the carrying value of goodwill by segment for the years indicated: (in millions) RetirementPlans IndividualProtection Corporateand Other Total Balance as of December 31, 2004 $ 64.1 $ 307.4 $ 10.8 $ 382.3 Adjustments 18.1 — — 18.1 Disposal/impairment — (25.1 ) (10.8 ) (35.9 ) Balance as of December 31, 2005 82.2 282.3 — 364.5 Disposal/impairment — (5.5 ) — (5.5 ) Balance as of December 31, 2006 $ 82.2 $ 276.8 $ — $ 359.0 F-39 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The 2005 acquisition of goodwill reflects the Company’s acquisition of Registered Investment Advisors Services, Inc. d/b/a RIA Services, Inc. (RIA) effective February 28, 2005. The aggregate purchase price was $18.1 million. The other 2005 activity relates to discontinued operations. See Note 2(n) for more information. The 2006 goodwill impairment represents a write-down to fair value of the portion of NFS’ investment in TBG Financial that was contributed to a joint venture between TBG Financial and MC Insurance Agency Services, LLC d/b/a Mullin Consulting during the first quarter of 2006. The Company’s 2006 annual impairment testing did not result in any other impairment losses on existing goodwill. (9) Closed Block The amounts shown in the following tables for assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the closed block of NLICA are those that enter into the determination of amounts that are to be paid to policyholders. The following table summarizes financial information for the closed block as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Closed block liabilities: Future policyholder benefits $ 1,881.0 $ 1,903.3 Policyholder funds and accumulated dividends 141.5 144.3 Policyholder dividends payable 30.1 28.1 Policyholder dividend obligation 64.0 73.2 Other policy obligations 10.2 8.1 Other closed block liabilities 0.4 0.9 Total closed block liabilities 2,127.2 2,157.9 Closed block assets: Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, at estimated fair value 1,154.5 1,209.5 Mortgage loans on real estate 344.9 363.1 Policy loans 206.8 213.1 Other closed block assets 159.2 98.2 Total closed block assets 1,865.4 1,883.9 Excess of reported closed block liabilities over closed block assets 261.8 274.0 Portion of above representing other comprehensive income: Decrease in unrealized gain on fixed maturity securities available-for-sale (14.8 ) (34.7 ) Adjustment to policyholder dividend obligation 14.8 34.7 Total — — Maximum future earnings to be recognized from closed block assets and liabilities $ 261.8 $ 274.0 Other comprehensive income: Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale: Fair value $ 1,154.5 $ 1,209.5 Amortized cost 1,138.6 1,178.8 Shadow policyholder dividend obligation (15.9 ) (30.7 ) Net unrealized appreciation $ — $ — F-40 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes closed block operations for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Closed block revenues: Premiums $ 98.0 $ 104.4 $ 107.3 Net investment income 105.0 110.2 110.8 Realized investment (losses) gains (4.1 ) 1.2 (1.7 ) Realized losses credited to policyholder benefit obligation 0.1 (5.2 ) (7.2 ) Total closed block revenues 199.0 210.6 209.2 Closed block benefits and expenses: Policy and contract benefits 137.9 142.7 136.8 Change in future policyholder benefits and interest credited to policyholder account values (22.8 ) (28.5 ) (19.6 ) Dividends to policyholders 58.3 55.6 57.1 Change in policyholder dividend obligation 5.7 17.7 7.0 Other closed block expenses 1.2 1.2 1.4 Total closed block benefits and expenses 180.3 188.7 182.7 Total closed block revenues, net of closed block benefits and expenses, before federal income taxes 18.7 21.9 26.5 Federal income taxes 6.5 7.7 9.3 Closed block revenues, net of closed block benefits and expenses and federal income taxes $ 12.2 $ 14.2 $ 17.2 Maximum future earnings from closed block assets and liabilities: Beginning of period $ 274.0 $ 288.2 $ 305.4 Change during period (12.2 ) (14.2 ) (17.2 ) Other adjustments — — — End of period $ 261.8 $ 274.0 $ 288.2 Cumulative closed block earnings from inception through December 31, 2006 and 2005 were higher than expected as determined in the actuarial calculation. Therefore, policyholder dividend obligations (excluding the adjustment for unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities) were $48.1 million and $42.5 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other adjustments include revisions to the prior year-end balances including primarily policyholder dividends payable and adjustments to current and deferred taxes. (10) Variable Annuity Contracts The Company issues traditional variable annuity contracts through its separate accounts, for which investment income and gains and losses on investments accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the contractholder. The Company also issues non-traditional variable annuity contracts in which the Company provides various forms of guarantees to benefit the related contractholders. The Company provides four primary guarantee types under non-traditional variable annuity contracts: (1) GMDB; (2) GMAB; (3) guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB); and (4) a hybrid guarantee with GMAB and GLWB. The GMDB provides a specified minimum return upon death. Many of these death benefits are spousal, whereby a death benefit will be paid upon death of the first spouse. The survivor has the option to terminate the F-41 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 contract or continue it and have the death benefit paid into the contract and a second death benefit paid upon the survivor’s death. The Company has offered six primary GMDB types: • Return of premium—provides the greater of account value or total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals and assessments, which is referred to as “net premiums.” There are two variations of this benefit. In general, there is no lock-in age for this benefit. However, for some contracts the GMDB reverts to the account value at a specified age, typically age 75. • Reset—provides the greater of a return of premium death benefit or the most recent five-year anniversary (prior to lock-in age) account value adjusted for withdrawals. For most contracts, this GMDB locks in at age 86 or 90, and for others the GMDB reverts to the account value at age 75, 85, 86 or 90. • Ratchet—provides the greater of a return of premium death benefit or the highest specified “anniversary” account value (prior to age 86) adjusted for withdrawals. Currently, there are three versions of ratchet, with the difference based on the definition of anniversary: monthaversary—evaluated monthly; annual—evaluated annually; and five-year—evaluated every fifth year. • Rollup—provides the greater of a return of premium death benefit or premiums adjusted for withdrawals accumulated at generally 5% simple interest up to the earlier of age 86 or 200% of adjusted premiums. There are two variations of this benefit. For certain contracts, this GMDB locks in at age 86, and for others the GMDB reverts to the account value at age 75. • Combo—provides the greater of annual ratchet death benefit or rollup death benefit. This benefit locks in at either age 81 or 86. • Earnings enhancement—provides an enhancement to the death benefit that is a specified percentage of the adjusted earnings accumulated on the contract at the date of death. There are two versions of this benefit: (1) the benefit expires at age 86, and a credit of 4% of account value is deposited into the contract; and (2) the benefit does not have an end age, but has a cap on the payout and is paid upon the first death in a spousal situation. Both benefits have age limitations. This benefit is paid in addition to any other death benefits paid under the contract. The GMAB, offered in the Company’s Capital Preservation Plus contract rider, is a living benefit that provides the contractholder with a guaranteed return of premium, adjusted proportionately for withdrawals, after a specified period of time (5, 7 or 10 years) selected by the contractholder at the issuance of the variable annuity contract. In some cases, the contractholder also has the option, after a specified period of time, to drop the rider and continue the variable annuity contract without the GMAB. In general, the GMAB requires a minimum allocation to guaranteed term options or adherence to limitations required by an approved asset allocation strategy. The GMIB is a living benefit that provides the contractholder with a guaranteed annuitization value. The GMIB types are: • Ratchet—provides an annuitization value equal to the greater of account value, net premiums or the highest one-year anniversary account value (prior to age 86) adjusted for withdrawals. • Rollup—provides an annuitization value equal to the greater of account value and premiums adjusted for withdrawals accumulated at 5% compound interest up to the earlier of age 86 or 200% of adjusted premiums. • Combo—provides an annuitization value equal to the greater of account value, ratchet GMIB benefit or rollup GMIB benefit. F-42 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 See Note 5 for a complete description of the Company’s hybrid GMAB/GLWB offered through its CPPLI contract rider. All GMAB contracts with the hybrid GMAB/GLWB rider are included with GMAB contracts in the following tables. The following table summarizes the account values and net amount at risk, net of reinsurance, for variable annuity contracts with guarantees invested in both general and separate accounts as of December 31: 2006 2005 (in millions) Accountvalue Net amountat risk1 Wtd. avg.attained age Accountvalue Net amountat risk1 Wtd. avg.attained age GMDB: Return of premium $ 9,243.7 $ 17.1 60 $ 9,272.7 $ 32.5 60 Reset 17,752.7 26.0 63 17,130.4 61.8 63 Ratchet 13,651.6 17.4 65 11,233.2 31.6 65 Rollup 568.1 5.7 70 629.1 8.5 69 Combo 2,588.7 14.9 68 2,530.6 22.3 68 Subtotal 43,804.8 81.1 64 40,796.0 156.7 64 Earnings enhancement 477.8 41.1 61 418.5 27.6 61 Total—GMDB $ 44,282.6 $ 122.2 63 $ 41,214.5 $ 184.3 63 GMAB2: 5 Year $ 2,131.1 $ 0.1 N/A $ 1,041.8 $ 0.5 N/A 7 Year 1,865.7 0.1 N/A 1,103.5 0.2 N/A 10 Year 784.0 — N/A 595.5 0.1 N/A Total—GMAB $ 4,780.8 $ 0.2 N/A $ 2,740.8 $ 0.8 N/A GMIB3: Ratchet $ 450.6 $ — N/A $ 444.7 $ — N/A Rollup 1,187.1 — N/A 1,189.3 — N/A Combo 0.5 — N/A 0.5 — N/A Total—GMIB $ 1,638.2 $ — N/A $ 1,634.5 $ — N/A GLWB3: Lifetime Income (L.INC) $ 993.8 $ — N/A $ — $ — N/A Total—GLWB $ 993.8 $ — N/A $ — $ — N/A 1 Net amount at risk is calculated on a seriatum basis and equals the respective guaranteed benefit less the account value (or zero if the account value exceeds the guaranteed benefit). As it relates to GMIB, net amount at risk is calculated as if all policies were eligible to annuitize immediately, although all GMIB options have a waiting period of at least 7 years from issuance, with the earliest annuitizations beginning in 2006. 2 GMAB contracts with the hybrid GMAB/GLWB rider had account values of $2.95 billion and $939.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 3 The weighted average period remaining until expected annuitization is not meaningful and has not been presented because there is currently no material GMIB exposure. F-43 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table is a rollforward of the liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts reflected in the Company’s general account for the years indicated: (in millions) GMDB GMAB GMIB GLWB Total Balance as of December 31, 2004 $ 23.7 $ 23.1 $ 0.8 $ — $ 47.6 Expense provision 33.0 — 0.4 — 33.4 Net claims paid (29.5 ) — — — (29.5 ) Value of new business sold — 54.0 — — 54.0 Change in fair value — (9.2 ) — — (9.2 ) Balance as of December 31, 2005 27.2 67.9 1.2 — 96.3 Expense provision 32.9 — — 0.3 33.2 Net claims paid (30.5 ) — — — (30.5 ) Value of new business sold — 95.2 — — 95.2 Change in fair value — (46.8 ) — — (46.8 ) Balance as of December 31, 2006 $ 29.6 $ 116.3 $ 1.2 $ 0.3 $ 147.4 The following table summarizes account balances of contracts with guarantees that were invested in separate accounts as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Mutual funds: Bond $ 4,499.2 $ 3,899.8 Domestic equity 30,084.2 28,344.2 International equity 3,446.8 2,188.8 Total mutual funds 38,030.2 34,432.8 Money market funds 1,429.1 1,371.4 Total $ 39,459.3 $ 35,804.2 The Company’s GMDB claim reserves are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits on contracts that trigger a policy benefit and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. GMIB claim reserves are determined each period by estimating the expected value of annuitization benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total assessments. The Company regularly evaluates its GMDB and GMIB claim reserve estimates and adjusts the additional liability balances as appropriate, with a related charge or credit to other benefits and claims in the period of evaluation if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in calculating GMIB claim reserves are consistent with those used for calculating GMDB claim reserves. In addition, the calculation of GMIB claim reserves assumes benefit utilization ranges from a low of 3% when the contractholder’s annuitization value is at least 10% in the money to 100% utilization when the contractholder is 90% or more in the money. In accordance with SOP 03-01, GLWB claim reserves for the L.INC rider are determined each period by estimating the expected value of withdrawal benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing such potential additional liabilities of the Company as a benefit reserve expense ratably over the accumulation period. The Company periodically evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance as appropriate, with a related charge or credit to life insurance and annuity benefits in the period of evaluation if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. F-44 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following assumptions and methodology were used to determine the GMDB claim reserves as of December 31, 2006 and 2005: • Data used was based on a combination of historical numbers and future projections involving 50 probabilistically generated economic scenarios • Mean gross equity performance—8.1% • Equity volatility—18.7% • Mortality—100% of Annuity 2000 table • Asset fees—equivalent to mutual fund and product loads • Discount rate—8.0% Lapse rate assumptions vary by duration as shown below: Duration (years) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10+ Minimum 4.00 % 5.00 % 6.00 % 7.00 % 8.00 % 9.50 % 10.00 % 11.00 % 14.00 % 14.00 % Maximum 4.00 % 5.00 % 6.00 % 7.00 % 35.00 % 35.00 % 23.00 % 35.00 % 35.00 % 23.00 % GMABs and hybrid GMABs/GLWBs are considered embedded derivatives under current accounting guidance, resulting in the related liabilities being separated from the host insurance product and recognized at fair value, with changes in fair value reported in earnings, and therefore, excluded from the SOP 03-1 policy benefits. (11) Short-Term Debt The following table summarizes short-term debt as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 $800.0 million commercial paper program $ — $ 134.7 $10.0 million line of credit 10.0 10.0 $350.0 million securities lending program facility 75.2 75.0 $250.0 million securities lending program facility — 32.6 Total short-term debt $ 85.2 $ 252.3 The Company has available as a source of funds a $1.00 billion revolving variable rate credit facility entered into by NFS, NLIC and NMIC with a group of national financial institutions. The facility provides for several and not joint liability with respect to any amount drawn by any party. The facility provides covenants, including, but not limited to, requirements that the Company maintain consolidated tangible net worth, as defined, in excess of $2.60 billion and that NLIC maintain statutory surplus, as defined, in excess of $1.67 billion. As of December 31, 2006, the Company and NLIC were in compliance with all covenants. The Company had no amounts outstanding under this agreement as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. NLIC also has an $800.0 million commercial paper program and is required to maintain an available credit facility equal to 50% of any amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. Therefore, borrowing capacity under the aggregate $1.00 billion revolving credit facility is reduced by 50% of any amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. NLIC had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2006 and $134.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2005 at a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.22%. F-45 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 In addition, the Company has a majority-owned subsidiary that has available an annually renewable, 364-day, $10.0 million variable rate line of credit agreement with a single financial institution. The line of credit is guaranteed by NFS and is included in the consolidated balance sheets. The majority-owned subsidiary had $10.0 million outstanding on that line of credit as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 at a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.29% in 2006 and 4.35% in 2005. NLIC has entered into an agreement with its custodial bank to borrow against the cash collateral that is posted in connection with its securities lending program. This is an uncommitted facility contingent on the liquidity of the securities lending program. The borrowing facility was established to fund commercial mortgage loans that were originated with the intent of sale through securitization. The maximum amount available under the agreement is $350.0 million. The borrowing rate on this program is equal to one-month U.S. LIBOR. NLIC had $75.2 million and $75.0 million outstanding under this agreement as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had not provided any guarantees on such borrowings, either directly or indirectly. The Company paid interest on short-term debt totaling $12.3 million, $11.8 million and $3.6 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (12) Long-Term Debt The following table summarizes long-term debt as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 $300.0 million principal, 8.00% senior notes, due March 1, 2027 $ 298.6 $ 298.5 $300.0 million principal, 6.25% senior notes, due November 15, 2011 299.2 299.1 $300.0 million principal, 5.90% senior notes, due July 1, 2012 299.0 298.8 $200.0 million principal, 5.625% senior notes, due February 13, 2015 199.2 199.1 $200.0 million principal, 5.10% senior notes, due October 1, 2015 199.4 199.4 $100.0 million principal, 7.899% junior subordinated debentures issued to a related party, due March 1, 2037 103.1 103.1 Total long-term debt $ 1,398.5 $ 1,398.0 The $300.0 million principal of 8.00% senior notes due March 1, 2027 were issued in March 1997 and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time on or after March 1, 2007 at scheduled redemption premiums through March 1, 2016, and, thereafter, at 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest. The $300.0 million principal of 6.25% senior notes due November 15, 2011 were issued in November 2001 and are not redeemable prior to their maturity date. The $300.0 million principal of 5.90% senior notes due July 1, 2012, issued in June 2002, and the $200.0 million principal of 5.625% senior notes due February 13, 2015, issued in February 2003, are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at a prevailing U.S. Treasury rate plus 20 basis points, together in each case with accrued interest payments to the redemption date. The $200.0 million principal of 5.10% senior notes due October 1, 2015 were issued in September 2005 and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of NFS at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be F-46 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 redeemed or (2) the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes, discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at a prevailing U.S. Treasury rate plus 15 basis points, together in each case with accrued interest payments to the redemption date. The terms of each series of senior notes contain various restrictive business and financial covenants, including limitations on the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. On March 11, 1997, Trust I sold, in a public offering, $100.0 million principal of 7.899% capital securities, representing preferred undivided beneficial interests in the assets of Trust I. This sale generated net proceeds of $98.3 million. Concurrent with the sale of the capital securities, NFS sold to Trust I $103.1 million principal of its 7.899% junior subordinated debentures due March 1, 2037. The junior subordinated debentures are the sole assets of Trust I and are redeemable by NFS in whole at any time or in part from time to time at par plus an applicable make-whole premium. The related capital securities will mature or be called simultaneously with the junior subordinated debentures and have a liquidation value of $1,000 per capital security. The capital securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NFS, and there are no related sinking fund requirements. Distributions on the capital securities are cumulative and payable semi-annually in arrears. On September 28, 2005, NFS redeemed all of its outstanding 7.10% junior subordinated debentures due October 31, 2028 (the Debt Securities), which were held by Nationwide Financial Services Capital Trust II (Trust II). In addition, all of the related outstanding 7.10% trust preferred securities and 7.10% trust common securities of Trust II were redeemed on that date. The aggregate principal amount redeemed of the Debt Securities was $206.2 million, plus $2.3 million in accrued interest through the redemption date. The Debt Securities were originally issued on October 19, 1998 and, in accordance with their terms, became subject to optional redemption by NFS on or after October 19, 2003. Pursuant to the terms of its Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, Trust II was required to use the proceeds it received from the redemption of the Debt Securities to redeem its trust preferred and trust common securities on the same day. As a result of these transactions, NFS incurred a non-cash charge of $21.7 million ($14.1 million, net of taxes) during the year ended December 31, 2005. The non-cash charge reflects the accelerated amortization of unamortized debt issuance costs, including a deferred loss on previous hedging transactions. These amounts otherwise would have been recognized through 2028. The Company made interest payments on the senior notes of $82.0 million in 2006, $71.7 million in 2005 and $71.7 million in 2004. Distributions related to junior subordinated debentures were classified as interest expense in the consolidated statements of income. The Company made distributions of $8.1 million, $19.0 million and $22.8 million related to junior subordinated debentures in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (13) Federal Income Taxes NFS’ acquisition of NFN in 2002 reduced Nationwide Corp.’s economic ownership in the Company from 79.8% to 63.0%. Therefore, NFS and its subsidiaries no longer qualify to be included in the NMIC consolidated federal income tax return. The members of the NMIC consolidated federal income tax return group participated in a tax sharing arrangement, which provided, in effect, for each member to bear essentially the same federal income tax liability as if separate tax returns were filed. Under IRC regulations, NFS and its subsidiaries cannot file a life/non-life consolidated federal income tax return until five full years following NFS’ departure from the NMIC consolidated federal income tax return F-47 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 group. Therefore, NFS and its direct non-life insurance company subsidiaries will file a consolidated federal income tax return; NLIC and Nationwide Life and Annuity Insurance Company (NLAIC) will file a consolidated federal income tax return; the direct non-life insurance companies under NLIC will file separate federal income tax returns; NLICA and its direct life insurance company subsidiaries will file a consolidated federal income tax return; and the direct non-life insurance companies under NLICA will file a consolidated federal income tax return, until 2008, when NFS will become eligible to file a single life/non-life consolidated federal income tax return with all of its subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant components of the net deferred tax liability as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Deferred tax assets: Future policy benefits $ 735.4 $ 776.9 Other 186.5 258.9 Gross deferred tax assets 921.9 1,035.8 Less valuation allowance (23.7 ) (31.7 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 898.2 1,004.1 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred policy acquisition costs 1,014.6 956.9 Value of business acquired 137.4 157.4 Other 256.8 337.0 Gross deferred tax liabilities 1,408.8 1,451.3 Net deferred tax liability $ 510.6 $ 447.2 In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion of the total gross deferred tax assets will not be realized. Future taxable amounts or recovery of federal income taxes paid within the statutory carryback period can offset nearly all future deductible amounts. Because it is more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets will not be realized, the Company established valuation allowances of $23.7 million, $31.7 million and $27.1 million as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s current federal income tax (asset) liability was $(20.8) million and $27.3 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Through June 2006, the Company’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2000-2002 were under IRS examination pursuant to a routine audit. In accordance with its regular practice, management established tax reserves representing its best estimate of additional amounts the Company could be required to pay if certain positions it had taken were challenged and ultimately denied by the IRS with respect to these tax years. These reserves are reviewed regularly and are adjusted as events occur that management believes impacts the Company’s liability for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations; conclusion of tax audits or substantial agreement on the deductibility/non-deductibility of uncertain items; additional exposure based on current calculations; identification of new issues; release of administrative guidance; or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax issue. A significant component of the Company’s tax reserve as of December 31, 2005 was related to the separate account dividends received deduction (DRD). F-48 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 In July 2006, the Company reached substantial agreement with the IRS on all open issues for tax years 2000-2002, including issues related to the DRD. Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of amounts that may be due in connection with certain tax positions, including the DRD, for all open tax years. As a result of the revised estimate, $114.2 million of tax reserves were released into earnings during the quarter ended June 30, 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded $8.3 million of net federal income tax expense adjustments primarily related to differences between the 2005 estimated tax liability and the amounts reported on the Company’s 2005 tax returns. During the third quarter of 2005, the Company refined its separate account DRD estimation process. As a result, the Company identified and recorded additional federal income tax benefits and recoverables in the amount of $42.6 million related to all tax years (2000 – 2005) that were open at that time. In addition, the Company recorded $5.6 million of net benefit adjustments primarily related to differences between the 2004 estimated tax liability and the amounts reported on the Company’s 2004 tax returns. The following table summarizes the federal income tax expense attributable to income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Current $ (34.0 ) $ 105.6 $ 210.6 Deferred 99.1 27.1 (43.2 ) Federal income tax expense $ 65.1 $ 132.7 $ 167.4 Total federal income tax expense differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal income tax rate to income from continuing operations before federal income taxes as follows for the years ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Amount % Amount % Amount % Computed (expected) tax expense $ 272.6 35.0 $ 264.6 35.0 $ 236.3 35.0 Tax exempt interest and DRD (73.0 ) (9.4 ) (115.4 ) (15.3 ) (50.6 ) (7.5 ) Reserve release (114.2 ) (14.7 ) — — — — Other, net (20.3 ) (2.5 ) (16.5 ) (2.1 ) (18.3 ) (2.7 ) Total $ 65.1 8.4 $ 132.7 17.6 $ 167.4 24.8 The Jobs Creation Act of 2004 suspends policyholder surplus accounts (PSA) during 2005 and 2006 and provides that direct and indirect distributions from the PSA during any taxable year beginning after 2004 and before 2007 be treated as zero. Because NLIC had the ability and intent to distribute this PSA balance to its shareholder during the noted period, the potential tax liability was eliminated as of December 31, 2004. The Jobs Creation Act of 2004 had no other significant impact on the Company’s tax position. Total federal income taxes paid were $0.3 million, $236.0 million and $149.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $26.0 million of net operating loss carryforwards related to non-life losses that are limited in their ability to offset life earnings that begin to expire in 2021. As of December 31, 2006, the Company also had $35.5 million of capital loss carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2010 if unutilized. The Company expects to fully utilize these carryforward amounts. F-49 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (14) Shareholders’ Equity, Regulatory Risk-Based Capital and Dividend Restrictions Overview The Board of Directors of the Company has the authority to issue 50.0 million shares of preferred stock without further action of the shareholders. Preferred stock may be issued in one or more classes with full, special, limited or no voting powers; designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights; and qualifications and limitations or restrictions as stated in any resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company issuing any class of preferred stock. No shares of preferred stock have been issued or are outstanding. The holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. The holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share. Class A common stock has no conversion rights. Class B common stock is convertible into Class A common stock, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time at the option of the holder, on the basis of one share of Class A common stock for each share of Class B common stock converted. If at any time after the initial issuance of shares of Class A common stock the number of outstanding shares of Class B common stock falls below 5% of the aggregate number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock, then each outstanding share of Class B common stock shall automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock. In the event of any sale or transfer of shares of Class B common stock to any person or persons other than NMIC or its affiliates, such shares of Class B common stock so transferred shall be automatically converted into an equal number of shares of Class A common stock. Cash dividends of $0.92, $0.76 and $0.72 per common share were declared during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Share Repurchase Program On August 3, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program (the Program). The Program authorizes the Company to repurchase up to an aggregate of $300.0 million in value of shares of its common stock in the open market, in block trades or otherwise, and through privately negotiated transactions. On August 2, 2006, the Board of Directors extended the approval of the Program through December 2007 and authorized repurchases of up to $200.0 million in value of shares of the Company’s common stock in addition to the $300.0 million previously authorized. On February 21, 2007, the Board of Directors further extended the approval of the Program through December 2008 and authorized repurchases of up to $450.0 million in value of shares of the Company’s common stock in addition to the $500.0 million total previously authorized. Repurchases under the program are to be made in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including SEC rules. All shares repurchased under the Program are classified as treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheets. The Program may be superseded or discontinued at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company repurchased 4,813,078 shares of its Class A common stock for an aggregate of $216.3 million at an average price per share of $44.93. Included in the total shares repurchased were 2,790,698 shares repurchased under an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) for $124.3 million at an average price per share of $44.55. The Company entered into the ASR with UBS AG, London Branch (UBS) during the quarter ended March 31, 2006. Under the ASR, the Company repurchased shares immediately from UBS. Simultaneously, the Company entered into a forward contract with UBS indexed to the number of shares repurchased. Under the terms of the forward contract, the Company was required to pay a per share price adjustment based on the difference between the average of daily volume weighted prices during the duration of the ASR and the initial reference price. The ASR terminated during October 2006, at which time the Company settled the forward contract for $4.3 million in cash. F-50 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Since the Program’s inception, the Company has repurchased a total of 6,052,228 shares of its Class A common stock for an aggregate of $267.6 million at an average price per share of $44.22, including the impact of the per share price adjustment described above. In addition to the Class A share repurchases described above, NFS and Nationwide Corp. entered into a Share Purchase Agreement on November 27, 2006. Pursuant to this agreement, NFS purchased 3,855,050 shares of its Class B common stock held by Nationwide Corp. for $200.0 million at an average price per share of $51.88 (the five-day average closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for the period beginning November 27, 2006 and ending December 1, 2006). The transaction closed on December 4, 2006. Upon the repurchase, the Class B common stock converted automatically to Class A common stock. The Company retained these shares in treasury for future issuance. The Company’s management will determine the timing and amount of any additional repurchases based upon its evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors. The Company anticipates that it will continue to fund the Program using cash flows from operating activities. Regulatory Risk-Based Capital Each insurance company’s state of domicile imposes minimum risk-based capital (RBC) requirements that were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. Each of the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC requirements for all periods presented herein. Dividend Restrictions As an insurance holding company, NFS’ ability to meet debt service obligations and pay operating expenses and dividends depends primarily on the receipt of sufficient funds from its primary operating subsidiary, NLIC. The inability of NLIC to pay dividends to NFS in an amount sufficient to meet debt service obligations and pay operating expenses and dividends would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The payment of dividends by NLIC is subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws and regulations of the State of Ohio, its domiciliary state. The State of Ohio insurance laws require Ohio-domiciled life insurance companies to seek prior regulatory approval to pay a dividend or distribution of cash or other property if the fair market value thereof, together with that of other dividends or distributions made in the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) 10% of statutory-basis policyholders’ surplus as of the prior December 31 or (2) the statutory-basis net income of the insurer for the prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2006, NLIC paid dividends of $375.0 million to NFS. NLIC’s statutory capital and surplus as of December 31, 2006 was $2.68 billion, and statutory net income for 2006 was $537.5 million. As of January 1, 2007, NLIC could pay dividends to NFS totaling $162.5 million without obtaining prior approval. As of March 1, 2007, NLIC will be able to pay dividends to NFS totaling $232.5 million upon providing prior notice to the ODI. On February 21, 2007, NLIC declared an ordinary dividend of $232.5 million and an extraordinary dividend of $242.5 million, both payable to NFS in March 2007. NLIC will provide notice to the ODI of the ordinary dividend and seek prior approval from the ODI of the extraordinary dividend before paying these dividends to NFS. F-51 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The State of Ohio insurance laws also require insurers to seek prior regulatory approval for any dividend paid from other than earned surplus. Earned surplus is defined under the State of Ohio insurance laws as the amount equal to the Company’s unassigned funds as set forth in its most recent statutory financial statements, including net unrealized capital gains and losses or revaluation of assets. Additionally, following any dividend, an insurer’s policyholder surplus must be reasonable in relation to the insurer’s outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs. The payment of dividends by NLIC may also be subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws of the State of New York that limit the amount of statutory profits on NLIC’s participating policies (measured before dividends to policyholders) that can inure to the benefit of the Company and its stockholders. The ability of NLICA to pay dividends to NFS is subject to regulation under Pennsylvania insurance law. Under Pennsylvania insurance laws, unless the PID either approves or does not disapprove payment within 30 days after being notified, NLICA may not pay any cash dividends or other non-stock distributions to NFS during any 12-month period if the total payments exceed the greater of (1) 10% of statutory-basis policyholders’ surplus as of the prior December 31 or (2) the statutory-basis net income of the insurer for the prior year. NLICA paid a dividend of $110.0 million to NFS in 2006. The statutory capital and surplus of NLICA as of December 31, 2006 was $654.3 million, and statutory net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $95.3 million. As of January 1, 2007, NLICA could not pay any dividends to NFS without obtaining prior approval. NFS currently does not expect such regulatory requirements to impair the ability of its insurance company subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends in order for NFS to have the necessary funds available to meet its obligations. F-52 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Comprehensive Income The Company’s comprehensive income includes net income and certain items that are reported directly within separate components of shareholders’ equity that are not recorded in net income (other comprehensive income or loss). The following table summarizes the Company’s other comprehensive loss, before and after federal income tax benefit, for the years ended December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net unrealized losses on securities available-for-sale arising during the period: Net unrealized losses before adjustments $ (194.3 ) $ (789.2 ) $ (138.4 ) Net adjustment to DAC 40.5 194.7 98.0 Net adjustment to VOBA (13.4 ) 12.0 5.4 Net adjustment to future policy benefits and claims 23.1 18.9 (9.2 ) Net adjustment to policyholder dividend obligation 14.7 34.7 (23.2 ) Related federal income tax benefit 45.2 185.1 23.5 Net unrealized losses (84.2 ) (343.8 ) (43.9 ) Reclassification adjustment for net realized losses (gains) on securities available-for-sale realized during the period: Net unrealized losses (gains) 11.5 (32.3 ) 10.0 Related federal income tax (benefit) expense (4.0 ) 11.3 (3.5 ) Net reclassification adjustment 7.5 (21.0 ) 6.5 Other comprehensive loss on securities available-for-sale (76.7 ) (364.8 ) (37.4 ) Accumulated net holding (losses) gains on cash flow hedges: Unrealized holding (losses) gains (0.2 ) 51.2 (54.3 ) Related federal income tax benefit (expense) 0.1 (17.9 ) 19.0 Other comprehensive (loss) income on cash flow hedges (0.1 ) 33.3 (35.3 ) Unrecognized amounts on pension plans: Net unrecognized amounts 12.3 — — Related federal income tax expense (4.3 ) — — Other comprehensive income on unrecognized pension amounts 8.0 — — Total other comprehensive loss $ (68.8 ) $ (331.5 ) $ (72.7 ) Adjustments for net realized gains and losses on the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges were immaterial during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (15) Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share represent the amount of earnings for the period available to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share represent the amount of earnings for the period available to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period adjusted for the potential issuance of common shares for stock options, if dilutive. F-53 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table presents information relating to the Company’s calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the years ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) Amount BasicEPS DilutedEPS Amount BasicEPS DilutedEPS Amount BasicEPS DilutedEPS Income from continuing operations $ 713.8 $ 4.76 $ 4.74 $ 623.4 $ 4.08 $ 4.06 $ 507.7 $ 3.34 $ 3.32 Discontinued operations, net of taxes — — — (24.7 ) (0.16 ) (0.16 ) (2.3 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting principles, net of taxes — — — — — — (3.4 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) Net income $ 713.8 $ 4.76 $ 4.74 $ 598.7 $ 3.92 $ 3.90 $ 502.0 $ 3.30 $ 3.28 Weighted average common shares outstanding—basic 149.9 152.9 152.1 Dilutive effect of stock options 0.8 0.7 0.8 Weighted average common shares outstanding—diluted 150.7 153.6 152.9 (16) Employee Benefit Plans Defined Benefit Plans The Company, excluding NFN, and certain affiliated companies participate in a qualified defined benefit pension plan sponsored by NMIC. This plan covers all employees of participating companies who have completed at least one year of service. Plan contributions are invested in a group annuity contract issued by NLIC. All participants are eligible for benefits based on an account balance feature. Participants last hired before 2002 are eligible for benefits based on the highest average annual salary of a specified number of consecutive years of the last ten years of service, if such benefits are of greater value than the account balance feature. The Company funds pension costs accrued for direct employees plus an allocation of pension costs accrued for employees of affiliates whose work benefits the Company. A separate non-qualified defined benefit pension plan sponsored by NMIC covers certain executives with at least one year of service. The Company’s portion of expense relating to the plans sponsored by NMIC was $22.3 million, $17.9 million and $14.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. NFN also has separate qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans (the NFN pension plans). The NFN pension plans generally cover all NFN employees of participating companies who have completed at least one year of service. All participants are eligible for benefits based on an account balance feature. Participants hired before 2002 are eligible for benefits based on the highest average annual salary of a specified number of consecutive years of the last ten years of service, if such benefits are of greater value than the account balance feature. Plan contributions are invested in a group annuity contract issued by NLICA. The Company’s portion of income relating to the NFN pension plans was $0.1 million, $1.4 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 17 for more information on group annuity contracts issued by the Company for various employee benefit plans sponsored by NMIC or its affiliates. F-54 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes information regarding the funded status of the NFN pension plans (all are U.S. plans), as of December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Change in benefit obligation: Benefit obligation at beginning of year $ 102.9 $ 102.5 Service cost 2.6 2.4 Interest cost 4.8 4.8 Actuarial loss 0.1 3.4 Benefits paid (9.4 ) (10.2 ) Plan amendment1 0.3 — Benefit obligation at end of year 101.3 102.9 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 135.8 136.9 Actual return on plan assets 17.5 8.2 Employer contributions 2.8 0.9 Benefits paid (9.4 ) (10.2 ) Fair value of plan assets at end of year 146.7 135.8 Funded status $ 45.4 $ 32.9 Amounts not yet reflected in net periodic benefit cost and included in AOCI: Unrecognized prior service cost1 $ (0.3 ) Unrecognized net gain 12.6 Amount included in AOCI 12.3 Cumulative employer contributions in excess of net periodic benefit cost 33.1 Net amount recognized on balance sheet $ 45.4 Accumulated benefit obligation $ 94.1 $ 96.9 1 Represents the increase in the projected benefit obligation related to the application of the Pension Protection Act effective December 31, 2006. The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligation of the NFN pension plans as of the December 31 measurement date: 2006 2005 Discount rate 5.25 % 4.75 % Rate of increase in future compensation levels 4.75 % 4.25 % The following table summarizes the asset allocation for the NFN qualified pension plan at the end of 2006 and 2005 and the target allocation for 2007, by asset category: Percentage of plan assets Targetallocation percentage Asset Category 2006 2005 2007 Equity securities 67 % 68 % 62 - 68% Debt securities 33 % 32 % 32 - 38% Other — — 0 - 10% Total 100 % 100 % F-55 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The NFN pension plans employ a total return investment approach using a mix of equities and fixed income investments to maximize the long-term return of plan assets in exchange for a prudent level of risk. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities and funded status. On a quarterly basis, the portfolio of investments within the annuity contract issued by NFN is analyzed in light of current market conditions and rebalanced to match the target allocations. The NFN pension plans employ a prospective building block approach in determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. This process is integrated with the determination of other economic assumptions such as discount rate and salary scale. Historical markets are studied, and long-term historical relationships between equities and fixed income investments are preserved consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher volatility generate a greater return over the long run (called a risk premium). Historical risk premiums are used to develop expected real rates of return for each asset sub-class. The expected real rates of return, reduced for investment expenses, are applied to the target allocation of each asset sub-class to produce an expected real rate of return for the target portfolio. This expected real rate of return will vary by plan and will change when the plan’s target investment portfolio changes. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are incorporated into the process. For a given measurement date, the discount rate is set by reference to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds to approximate the rate at which plan benefits could effectively be settled. The historical real rate of return is subtracted from these bonds to generate an assumed inflation rate. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is the assumed inflation rate plus the expected real rate of return. This process effectively sets the expected return for the plan’s portfolio at the yield for the reference bond portfolio, adjusted for expected risk premiums of the target asset portfolio. Given the prospective nature of this calculation, short-term fluctuations in the market do not impact the expected risk premiums. However, as the yield for the reference bond fluctuates, the assumed inflation rate and the expected long-term rate are adjusted in tandem. Effective December 31, 2005, the historical risk premiums and expected real rates of return were re-evaluated affecting December 31, 2005 benefit obligations and 2006 costs. For benefits obligations, a lower real rate of return on corporate bonds led to a higher implied inflation rate and a higher rate of future compensation increase, which was 4.25% at December 31, 2005. In addition, the Company and certain affiliated companies, including NFN, participate in life and health care defined benefit plans sponsored by NMIC for qualifying retirees. Postretirement life and health care benefits are contributory. The level of contribution required by a qualified retiree depends on the retiree’s years of service and date of hire. In general, postretirement benefits are available to full-time employees who are credited with 120 months of retiree life and health service. Postretirement health care benefit contributions are adjusted annually and contain cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. In addition, there are caps on the Company’s portion of the per-participant cost of the postretirement health care benefits. The Company’s policy is to fund the cost of health care benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management. Plan assets are invested primarily in group annuity contracts issued by NLIC. The Company’s portion of expense relating to these plans was immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Defined Contribution Plans NMIC sponsors a defined contribution retirement savings plan covering substantially all employees of the Company. Employees may make salary deferral contributions of up to 80%. With the exception of NFN agents, salary deferrals of up to 6% are subject to a 50% Company match. The Company’s expense for contributions to these plans was $7.4 million, $7.3 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. F-56 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 NFN also provides a funded noncontributory defined contribution plan that covers substantially all of its agents. The Company’s expense for contributions to this plan was $0.9 million, $0.6 million and $0.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (17) Related Party Transactions The Company has entered into significant, recurring transactions and agreements with NMIC, other affiliates and subsidiaries as a part of its ongoing operations. These include annuity and life insurance contracts, office space leases, and agreements related to reinsurance, cost sharing, administrative services, marketing, intercompany loans, intercompany repurchases, cash management services and software licensing. Measures used to allocate expenses among companies include individual employee estimates of time spent, special cost studies, the number of full-time employees, commission expense and other methods agreed to by the participating companies and that are within industry guidelines and practices. In addition, Nationwide Services Company, LLC (NSC), a subsidiary of NMIC, provides computer, telephone, mail, employee benefits administration and other services to NMIC and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including the Company, based on specified rates for units of service consumed. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company made payments to NMIC and NSC totaling $264.5 million, $314.7 million and $221.7 million, respectively. The Company has issued group annuity and life insurance contracts and performs administrative services for various employee benefit plans sponsored by NMIC or its affiliates. Total account values of these contracts were $5.64 billion and $6.61 billion as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Total revenues from these contracts were $139.3 million, $141.9 million and $142.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and include policy charges, net investment income from investments backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total interest credited to the account balances was $111.4 million, $108.3 million and $109.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The terms of these contracts are materially consistent with what the Company offers to unaffiliated parties who are similarly situated. The Company leases office space from NMIC. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company made lease payments to NMIC of $19.3 million, $18.7 million and $18.4 million, respectively. NLIC has a reinsurance agreement with NMIC whereby all of NLIC’s accident and health business not ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers is ceded to NMIC on a modified coinsurance basis. Either party may terminate the agreement on January 1 of any year with prior notice. Under a modified coinsurance agreement, the ceding company retains invested assets, and investment earnings are paid to the reinsurer. Under the terms of NLIC’s agreements, the investment risk associated with changes in interest rates is borne by the reinsurer. The ceding of risk does not discharge the original insurer from its primary obligation to the policyholder. The Company believes that the terms of the modified coinsurance agreements are consistent in all material respects with what the Company could have obtained with unaffiliated parties. Revenues ceded to NMIC for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $430.8 million, $429.5 million and $335.6 million, respectively, while benefits, claims and expenses ceded during these years were $470.4 million, $398.8 million and $336.0 million, respectively. Funds of NWD Investment Management, Inc. (NWD), an affiliate formerly known as Gartmore Global Investments, Inc., are offered to the Company’s customers as investment options in certain of the Company’s F-57 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 products. This arrangement is documented in agreements between NWD affiliates and the Company to govern the inclusion of NWD affiliated funds within various distribution channels of the Company. In addition, the agreements cover the payment of revenue to the Company in exchange for services that the Company provides. These services include shareholder and administrative services, record keeping, distribution and marketing support. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, customer allocations to NWD funds totaled $24.86 billion and $20.24 billion, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, NWD paid the Company $80.3 million, $64.2 million and $55.0 million, respectively, for the distribution and servicing of these funds. In addition, the Company entered into a renewable three-year marketing and support services agreement with NWD effective June 28, 2002. Effective June 28, 2005, the Company and NWD amended the agreement to provide for an initial term of three years and sixty days from June 28, 2002. The agreement expired on August 26, 2005. Under this agreement, the Company had received a quarterly fee of $1.0 million in exchange for certain marketing and support of NWD product offerings. Effective October 1, 2005, an affiliate of NWD and the Company agreed to increase the fees paid to the Company with respect to various NWD managed money market funds on an annualized basis by 15 basis points in place of the expired marketing and support services agreement. These fees are included in the amounts disclosed above. On November 2, 2006, NFS and NMIC announced that they were in discussions regarding the Philadelphia-based retail asset management operations of NWD. On December 21, 2006, NFS and NMIC announced that they had reached an agreement outlining the preliminary terms for NFS’ purchase of NWD. On February 2, 2007, NFS entered into a stock purchase agreement with Nationwide Corporation. Total consideration in the transaction will be $225.0 million in cash, plus the value of NWD’s tangible shareholders’ equity at closing. The transaction is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2007 and is subject to the approval of the shareholders of the affected NWD funds to be acquired by NFS. Under a marketing agreement with NMIC, NLIC makes payments to cover a portion of the agent marketing allowance that is paid to Nationwide agents. These costs cover product development and promotion, sales literature, rent and similar items. Payments under this agreement totaled $28.3 million, $26.5 million and $23.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company also participates in intercompany repurchase agreements with affiliates whereby the seller transfers securities to the buyer at a stated value. Upon demand or after a stated period, the seller repurchases the securities at the original sales price plus interest. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had no outstanding borrowings from affiliated entities under such agreements. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the most the Company had outstanding at any given time was $191.5 million, $55.3 million and $227.7 million, respectively, and the amounts the Company incurred for interest expense on intercompany repurchase agreements during these years were immaterial. The Company and various affiliates entered into agreements with Nationwide Cash Management Company (NCMC), an affiliate, under which NCMC acts as a common agent in handling the purchase and sale of short-term securities for the respective accounts of the participants. Amounts on deposit with NCMC for the benefit of the Company were $869.6 million and $673.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are included in short-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company and an affiliate are currently developing a browser-based policy administration and online brokerage software application for defined benefit plans. In connection with the development of this application, the Company made net payments, which were expensed, to that affiliate related to development totaling $9.5 million, $4.1 million and $5.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. F-58 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 Through September 30, 2002, the Company filed a consolidated federal income tax return with NMIC, as described in Note 13. Effective October 1, 2002, NFS began filing a consolidated federal tax return with its non-life insurance company subsidiaries. Total payments (from) to NMIC were $(16.3) million, $45.0 million and $37.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These payments related to tax years prior to deconsolidation. (18) Contingencies Legal Matters The Company is a party to litigation and arbitration proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. It is often not possible to determine the ultimate outcome of the pending investigations and legal proceedings or to provide reasonable ranges of potential losses with any degree of certainty. Some matters, including certain of those referred to below, are in very preliminary stages, and the Company does not have sufficient information to make an assessment of the plaintiffs’ claims for liability or damages. In some of the cases seeking to be certified as class actions, the court has not yet decided whether a class will be certified or (in the event of certification) the size of the class and class period. In many of the cases, the plaintiffs are seeking undefined amounts of damages or other relief, including punitive damages and equitable remedies, which are difficult to quantify and cannot be defined based on the information currently available. The Company does not believe, based on information currently known by management, that the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position. However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial results in a particular quarterly or annual period. In recent years, life insurance companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class action lawsuits relating to life insurance and annuity pricing and sales practices. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial jury awards or settlements against life insurers other than the Company. The financial services industry, including mutual fund, variable annuity, life insurance and distribution companies, has also been the subject of increasing scrutiny by regulators, legislators and the media over the past few years. Numerous regulatory agencies, including the SEC, the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York State Attorney General, have commenced industry-wide investigations regarding late trading and market timing in connection with mutual funds and variable insurance contracts, and have commenced enforcement actions against some mutual fund and life insurance companies on those issues. The Company has been contacted by or received subpoenas from the SEC and the New York State Attorney General, who are investigating market timing in certain mutual funds offered in insurance products sponsored by the Company. The Company has cooperated with these investigations. Information requests from the New York State Attorney General and the SEC with respect to investigations into late trading and market timing were last responded to by the Company and its affiliates in December 2003 and June 2005, respectively, and no further information requests have been received with respect to these matters. In addition, state and federal regulators have commenced investigations or other proceedings relating to compensation and bidding arrangements and possible anti-competitive activities between insurance producers and brokers and issuers of insurance products, and unsuitable sales and replacements by producers on behalf of the issuer. Also under investigation are compensation and revenue sharing arrangements between the issuers of variable insurance contracts and mutual funds or their affiliates, the use of side agreements and finite reinsurance agreements, funding agreements issued to back MTN programs, recordkeeping and retention compliance by F-59 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 broker/dealers, and supervision of former registered representatives. Related investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future. The Company and/or its affiliates have been contacted by or received subpoenas from state and federal regulatory agencies, state securities law regulators and state attorneys general for information relating to certain of these investigations, including those relating to compensation, revenue sharing and bidding arrangements, anti-competitive activities, unsuitable sales or replacement practices, the use of side agreements and finite reinsurance agreements, and funding agreements backing the NLIC MTN program. The Company is cooperating with regulators in connection with these inquiries and will cooperate with NMIC in responding to these inquiries to the extent that any inquiries encompass NMIC’s operations. These proceedings are expected to continue in the future and could result in legal precedents and new industry-wide legislation, rules and regulations that could significantly affect the financial services industry, including life insurance and annuity companies. These proceedings also could affect the outcome of one or more of the Company’s litigation matters. There can be no assurance that any such litigation or regulatory actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future. On November 15, 2006, NFS, NLIC and NRS were named in a lawsuit filed in the Untied States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio entitled Kevin Beary, Sheriff of Orange County, Florida, In His Official Capacity, Individually and On Behalf of All Others Similarly Situated v. Nationwide Life Insurance Co., Nationwide Retirement Solutions, Inc. and Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. The plaintiff seeks to represent a class of all sponsors of 457(b) deferred compensation plans in the United States that had variable annuity contracts with the defendants at any time during the class period, or in the alternative, all sponsors of 457(b) deferred compensation plans in Florida that had variable annuity contracts with the defendants during the class period. The Class Period is from January 1, 1996 until the Class Notice is provided. The plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by arranging for and retaining service payments from certain mutual funds. The complaint seeks an accounting, a declaratory judgment, a permanent injunction and disgorgement or restitution of the service fee payments allegedly received by the defendants, including interest. On January 25, 2007, the Company filed a motion to dismiss. The Company intends to defend this lawsuit vigorously. On February 11, 2005, NLIC was named in a class action lawsuit filed in Common Pleas Court, Franklin County, Ohio entitled Michael Carr v. Nationwide Life Insurance Company. The complaint seeks recovery for breach of contract, fraud by omission, violation of the Ohio Deceptive Trade Practices Act and unjust enrichment. The complaint also seeks unspecified compensatory damages, disgorgement of all amounts in excess of the guaranteed maximum premium and attorneys’ fees. On February 2, 2006, the Court granted the plaintiff’s motion for class certification on the breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. The Court certified a class consisting of all residents of the United States and the Virgin Islands who, during the Class Period, paid premiums on a modal basis to NLIC for term life insurance policies issued by NLIC during the Class Period that provide for guaranteed maximum premiums, excluding certain specified products. Excluded from the class are NLIC; any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of NLIC; all employees, officers and directors of NLIC; and any justice, judge or magistrate judge of the State of Ohio who may hear the case. The Class Period is from February 10, 1990 through February 2, 2006, the date the class was certified. On January 26, 2007, the plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment. NLIC continues to defend this lawsuit vigorously. On April 13, 2004, NLIC was named in a class action lawsuit filed in Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, entitled Woodbury v. Nationwide Life Insurance Company. NLIC removed this case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois on June 1, 2004. On December 27, 2004, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland and included in the multi-district proceeding entitled In Re Mutual Funds Investment Litigation. In response, on May 13, 2005, the plaintiff F-60 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 filed a First Amended Complaint purporting to represent, with certain exceptions, a class of all persons who held (through their ownership of an NLIC annuity or insurance product) units of any NLIC sub-account invested in mutual funds that included foreign securities in their portfolios and that experienced market timing or stale price trading activity. The First Amended Complaint purports to disclaim, with respect to market timing or stale price trading in NLIC’s annuities sub-accounts, any allegation based on NLIC’s untrue statement, failure to disclose any material fact, or usage of any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in connection with any class member’s purchases or sales of NLIC annuities or units in annuities sub-accounts. The plaintiff claims, in the alternative, that if NLIC is found with respect to market timing or stale price trading in its annuities sub-accounts, to have made any untrue statement, to have failed to disclose any material fact or to have used or employed any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, then the plaintiff purports to represent a class, with certain exceptions, of all persons who, prior to NLIC’s untrue statement, omission of material fact, use or employment of any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, held (through their ownership of an NLIC annuity or insurance product) units of any NLIC sub-account invested in mutual funds that included foreign securities in their portfolios and that experienced market timing activity. The First Amended Complaint alleges common law negligence and seeks to recover damages not to exceed $75,000 per plaintiff or class member, including all compensatory damages and costs. On June 1, 2006, the District Court granted NLIC’s motion to dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint. On November 29, 2006, the plaintiff filed its appellate brief with the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals contesting the District Court’s dismissal. NLIC continues to defend this lawsuit vigorously. On January 21, 2004, NLIC, NLICA, NLAIC, NFS and Nationwide Financial Corporation (collectively referred to as the Companies) were named in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi entitled United Investors Life Insurance Company v. Nationwide Life Insurance Company and/or Nationwide Life Insurance Company of America and/or Nationwide Life and Annuity Insurance Company and/or Nationwide Life and Annuity Company of America and/or Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and/or Nationwide Financial Corporation, and John Does A-Z. In its complaint, the plaintiff alleges that the Companies and/or their affiliated life insurance companies caused the replacement of variable insurance policies and other financial products issued by United Investors with policies issued by the Companies. The plaintiff raises claims for (1) violations of the Federal Lanham Act, and common law unfair competition and defamation; (2) tortious interference with the plaintiff’s contractual relationship with Waddell & Reed, Inc. and/or its affiliates, Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc., Waddell & Reed Financial Services, Inc. and W&R Insurance Agency, Inc., or with the plaintiff’s contractual relationships with its variable policyholders; (3) civil conspiracy; and (4) breach of fiduciary duty. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, a full accounting, a constructive trust and costs and disbursements, including attorneys’ fees. On December 30, 2005, the Companies filed a motion for summary judgment. On June 15, 2006, the District Court granted the Companies’ motion for summary judgment on all grounds and dismissed the plaintiff’s entire case with prejudice. The plaintiff appealed the District Court’s decision to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. The appeal has been fully briefed, and the Companies are awaiting a decision. The Companies continue to defend this lawsuit vigorously. On August 15, 2001, NFS and NLIC were named in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut entitled Lou Haddock, as trustee of the Flyte Tool & Die, Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan, et al v. Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and Nationwide Life Insurance Company. Currently, the plaintiffs’ fifth amended complaint, filed March 21, 2006, purports to represent a class of qualified retirement plans under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), that purchased variable annuities from NLIC. The plaintiffs allege that they invested ERISA plan assets in their variable annuity contracts and that NLIC and NFS breached ERISA fiduciary duties by allegedly accepting service payments from certain mutual funds. The complaint seeks disgorgement of some or all of the payments F-61 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 allegedly received by NLIC and NFS, other unspecified relief for restitution, declaratory and injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. To date, the District Court has rejected the plaintiffs’ request for certification of the alleged class. NFS’ and NLIC’s motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ fifth amended complaint is currently pending before the court. NFS and NLIC continue to defend this lawsuit vigorously. On October 9, 2003, NLICA was named as one of twenty-six defendants in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania entitled Steven L. Flood, Luzerne County Controller and the Luzerne County Retirement Board on behalf of the Luzerne County Employee Retirement System v. Thomas A. Makowski, Esq., et al. NLICA is a defendant as the successor in interest to Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company, which is alleged to have entered into four agreements to manage assets and investments of the Luzerne County Employee Retirement System (the Plan). In their complaint, the plaintiffs allege that NLICA aided and abetted certain other defendants in breaching their fiduciary duties to the Plan. The plaintiffs also allege that NLICA violated the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) by engaging in and conspiring to engage in an improper scheme to mismanage funds in order to collect excessive fees and commissions and that NLICA was unjustly enriched by the allegedly excessive fees and commissions. The complaint seeks treble compensatory damages, punitive damages, a full accounting, imposition of a constructive trust on all funds paid by the Plan to all defendants, pre- and post-judgment interest, and costs and disbursements, including attorneys’ fees. On August 24, 2004, the District Court issued an order dismissing the count alleging aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and one of the RICO counts. Fact and expert discovery has been completed. On October 11, 2006, NLICA filed a motion for summary judgment on all relevant counts contained in the complaint. Additionally, all other remaining defendants have filed a motion for summary judgment on all remaining claims. Those motions are pending before the court. NLICA continues to defend this lawsuit vigorously. Tax Matters The Company’s federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the IRS. Management has established tax reserves representing its best estimate of additional amounts it may be required to pay if certain tax positions it has taken are challenged and ultimately denied by the IRS. These reserves are reviewed regularly and are adjusted as events occur that management believes impact its liability for additional taxes, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits or substantial agreement on the deductibility/non-deductibility of uncertain items, additional exposure based on current calculations, identification of new issues, release of administrative guidance or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax issue. Management believes its tax reserves reasonably provide for potential assessments that may result from IRS examinations and other tax-related matters for all open tax years. (19) Guarantees Since 2001, the Company has sold $626.1 million of credit enhanced equity interests in Low-Income-Housing Tax Credit Funds (Tax Credit Funds) to unrelated third parties. The Company has guaranteed cumulative after-tax yields to the third party investors ranging from 3.75% to 5.25% over periods ending between 2002 and 2022. As of December 31, 2006, the Company held guarantee reserves totaling $6.3 million on these transactions. These guarantees are in effect for periods of approximately 15 years each. The Tax Credit Funds provide a stream of tax benefits to the investors that will generate a yield and return of capital. If the tax benefits are not sufficient to provide these cumulative after-tax yields, then the Company must fund any shortfall, which is mitigated by stabilization collateral set aside by the Company at the inception of the transactions. The maximum amount of undiscounted future payments that the Company could be required to pay the investors under the terms of the guarantees is $1.36 billion. The Company does not anticipate making any payments related to these guarantees. F-62 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 At the time of the sales, $5.9 million of net sale proceeds were set aside as collateral for certain properties owned by the Tax Credit Funds that had not met all of the criteria necessary to generate tax credits. Such criteria include completion of construction and the leasing of each unit to a qualified tenant, among others. Properties meeting the necessary criteria are considered to have “stabilized.” The properties are evaluated regularly, and the collateral is released when stabilized. During 2006 and 2005, no stabilization collateral amounts were released into income. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $2.2 million of stabilization collateral was unrecognized and recorded as a reserve, respectively. To the extent there are cash deficits in any specific property owned by the Tax Credit Funds, property reserves, property operating guarantees and reserves held by the Tax Credit Funds are exhausted before the Company is required to perform under its guarantees. To the extent the Company is ever required to perform under its guarantees, it may recover any such funding out of the cash flow distributed from the sale of the underlying properties of the Tax Credit Funds. This cash flow distribution would be paid to the Company prior to any cash flow distributions to unrelated third party investors. (20) Variable Interest Entities As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had relationships with 18 and 19 variable interest entities (VIEs), respectively, each of which the Company was the primary beneficiary. As of December 31, 2006, each VIE was a conduit that assists the Company in structured products transactions involving the sale of Tax Credit Funds to third party investors for which the Company provides guaranteed returns (see Note 19). The results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included along with corresponding minority interest liabilities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. VIE net assets were $445.5 million and $440.6 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table summarizes the components of net assets as of the December 31: (in millions) 2006 2005 Mortgage loans on real estate $ — $ 31.5 Other long-term investments 432.5 478.6 Short-term investments 33.7 42.3 Other assets 37.8 41.3 Short-term debt — (32.6 ) Other liabilities (58.5 ) (120.5 ) The Company’s total loss exposure from VIEs of which the Company is the primary beneficiary was immaterial as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (except for the impact of guarantees disclosed in Note 19). In addition to the VIEs described above, the Company holds variable interests, in the form of limited partnerships or similar investments, in Tax Credit Funds of which the Company is not the primary beneficiary. These investments have been held by the Company for periods of 1 to 10 years and allow the Company to utilize certain tax credits and realize other tax benefits from affordable housing projects. The Company also has certain investments in other securitization transactions that qualify as VIEs, but of which the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The total exposure to loss on these VIEs was $175.0 million and $67.0 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. F-63 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (21) Segment Information Management views the Company’s business primarily based on its underlying products and uses this basis to define its four reportable segments: Individual Investments, Retirement Plans, Individual Protection, and Corporate and Other. The primary segment profitability measure that management uses is pre-tax operating earnings, which is calculated by adjusting income from continuing operations before federal income taxes and discontinued operations to exclude: (1) net realized gains and losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items, except for operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations); and (2) the adjustment to amortization of DAC and VOBA related to net realized gains and losses. Individual Investments The Individual Investments segment consists of individual The BEST of AMERICA® and private label deferred variable annuity products, individual annuity products, deferred fixed annuity products, income products and advisory services. Individual deferred annuity contracts provide the customer with tax-deferred accumulation of savings and flexible payout options including lump sum, systematic withdrawal or a stream of payments for life. In addition, individual variable annuity contracts provide the customer with access to a wide range of investment options and asset protection features, while individual fixed annuity contracts generate a return for the customer at a specified interest rate fixed for prescribed periods. Retirement Plans The Retirement Plans segment is comprised of the Company’s private and public sector retirement plans business. The private sector primarily includes IRC Section 401(k) fixed and variable group annuity business generated through NLIC and trust and custodial services through Nationwide Trust Company, FSB a division of Nationwide Bank, and RIA. The public sector primarily includes IRC Section 457 and Section 401(a) business in the form of full-service arrangements that provide plan administration and fixed and variable group annuities as well as administration-only business. Retirement Plans sales do not include large case retirement plan acquisitions and Nationwide employee and agent benefit plans. Individual Protection The Individual Protection segment consists of investment life insurance products, including individual variable, COLI and BOLI products; traditional life insurance products; universal life insurance products; and the operating results of TBG Financial. Life insurance products provide a death benefit and generally allow the customer to build cash value on a tax-advantaged basis. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment includes structured products business; the MTN program; net investment income and certain expenses not allocated to other segments; periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives; trading portfolio realized gains and losses; trading portfolio valuation changes; interest expense on debt; revenues and expenses of the Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries not reported in other segments; and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations. F-64 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The following table summarizes the Company’s business segment operating results for the years ended December 31: (in millions) IndividualInvestments RetirementPlans IndividualProtection Corporateand Other Total 2006 Revenues: Policy charges $ 588.4 $ 174.5 $ 553.1 $ — $ 1,316.0 Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 142.5 — 299.0 — 441.5 Net investment income 781.1 652.2 468.1 397.1 2,298.5 Net realized losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — (0.6 ) (0.6 ) Other income 2.3 284.2 25.3 48.3 360.1 Total revenues 1,514.3 1,110.9 1,345.5 444.8 4,415.5 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 528.3 451.6 191.7 208.7 1,380.3 Life insurance and annuity benefits 202.4 — 444.4 — 646.8 Policyholder dividends on participating policies — — 90.7 — 90.7 Amortization of DAC 352.7 38.3 81.6 (9.7 ) 462.9 Amortization of VOBA 6.5 6.9 32.6 — 46.0 Interest expense on debt — — 0.6 103.1 103.7 Other operating expenses 213.6 397.6 229.1 65.9 906.2 Total benefits and expenses 1,303.5 894.4 1,070.7 368.0 3,636.6 Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 210.8 216.5 274.8 76.8 $ 778.9 Net realized losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — 0.6 Adjustment to amortization related to net realized gains and losses — — — (9.7 ) Pre-tax operating earnings $ 210.8 $ 216.5 $ 274.8 $ 67.7 Assets as of period end $ 56,516.6 $ 30,317.9 $ 22,194.6 $ 10,382.5 $ 119,411.6 1 Excluding operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations). F-65 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in millions) IndividualInvestments RetirementPlans IndividualProtection Corporateand Other Total 2005 Revenues: Policy charges $ 540.2 $ 154.7 $ 546.6 $ — $ 1,241.5 Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 102.9 — 297.0 — 399.9 Net investment income 869.9 661.4 475.1 337.5 2,343.9 Net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — 18.2 18.2 Other income 1.5 225.6 29.8 47.5 304.4 Total revenues 1,514.5 1,041.7 1,348.5 403.2 4,307.9 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 589.1 455.0 190.7 146.1 1,380.9 Life insurance and annuity benefits 155.4 — 419.5 — 574.9 Policyholder dividends on participating policies — — 107.3 — 107.3 Amortization of DAC 329.3 47.4 102.7 0.8 480.2 Amortization of VOBA 7.2 3.5 34.3 — 45.0 Interest expense on debt — — 0.3 107.7 108.0 Debt extinguishment costs — — — 21.7 21.7 Other operating expenses 196.5 348.0 235.5 53.8 833.8 Total benefits and expenses 1,277.5 853.9 1,090.3 330.1 3,551.8 Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 237.0 187.8 258.2 73.1 $ 756.1 Net realized gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — (18.2 ) Adjustment to amortization of DAC related to net realized gains and losses — — — 0.8 Pre-tax operating earnings $ 237.0 $ 187.8 $ 258.2 $ 55.7 Assets as of period end $ 53,809.7 $ 31,678.1 $ 19,755.6 $ 10,916.5 $ 116,159.9 1 Excluding operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations). F-66 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in millions) IndividualInvestments RetirementPlans IndividualProtection Corporateand Other Total 2004 Revenues: Policy charges $ 513.4 $ 171.8 $ 537.4 $ — $ 1,222.6 Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 90.8 — 311.9 — 402.7 Net investment income 872.8 647.6 467.9 243.4 2,231.7 Net realized losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — (40.9 ) (40.9 ) Other income 0.4 160.1 32.9 66.6 260.0 Total revenues 1,477.4 979.5 1,350.1 269.1 4,076.1 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 606.1 446.1 189.4 86.7 1,328.3 Life insurance and annuity benefits 139.2 — 409.4 — 548.6 Policyholder dividends on participating policies — — 101.4 — 101.4 Amortization of DAC 276.1 39.9 114.4 — 430.4 Amortization of VOBA 7.5 4.7 40.1 — 52.3 Interest expense on debt — — — 102.4 102.4 Other operating expenses 214.1 308.5 252.7 62.3 837.6 Total benefits and expenses 1,243.0 799.2 1,107.4 251.4 3,401.0 Income from continuing operations before federal income tax expense 234.4 180.3 242.7 17.7 $ 675.1 Net realized losses on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items1 — — — 40.9 Pre-tax operating earnings $ 234.4 $ 180.3 $ 242.7 $ 58.6 Assets as of period end $ 55,473.3 $ 31,429.5 $ 17,975.0 $ 12,072.8 $ 116,950.6 1 Excluding operating items (periodic net coupon settlements on non-qualifying derivatives, trading portfolio realized gains and losses, trading portfolio valuation changes, and net realized gains and losses related to securitizations). F-67 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (22) Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) The following table summarizes the unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31: (in millions, except per share amounts) FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter 2006 Revenues: Policy charges $ 321.0 $ 337.6 $ 327.6 $ 329.8 Traditional life insurance and immediate annuity premiums 107.8 109.7 110.5 113.5 Net investment income 577.3 572.1 577.9 571.2 Net realized (losses) gains on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items (6.8 ) (9.9 ) 9.6 16.2 Other income 83.1 83.1 87.6 96.6 Total revenues 1,082.4 1,092.6 1,113.2 1,127.3 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 342.1 345.7 348.2 344.3 Life insurance and annuity benefits 156.1 156.4 163.8 170.5 Policyholder dividends on participating policies 20.2 24.5 24.6 21.4 Amortization of DAC 120.6 126.0 108.2 108.1 Amortization of VOBA 11.6 12.5 14.5 7.4 Interest expense on debt 26.1 25.1 25.3 27.2 Other operating expenses 222.2 217.9 214.5 251.6 Total benefits and expenses 898.9 908.1 899.1 930.5 Income from continuing operations before federal income taxes 183.5 184.5 214.1 196.8 Federal income tax expense (benefit) 41.2 (73.3 ) 54.6 42.6 Net income $ 142.3 $ 257.8 $ 159.5 $ 154.2 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 0.93 $ 1.73 $ 1.07 $ 1.04 Diluted $ 0.93 $ 1.72 $ 1.06 $ 1.03 F-68 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Continued December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter 2005 Revenues: Policy charges $ 309.1 $ 307.0 $ 315.0 $ 310.4 Traditional life insurance premiums 95.9 99.7 97.2 107.1 Net investment income 576.1 587.1 593.0 587.7 Net realized gains (losses) on investments, hedging instruments and hedged items 27.5 2.5 (13.8 ) 4.6 Other income 72.9 72.3 71.7 84.9 Total revenues 1,081.5 1,068.6 1,063.1 1,094.7 Benefits and expenses: Interest credited to policyholder account values 334.5 348.1 350.6 347.7 Life insurance and annuity benefits 136.2 145.9 142.9 149.9 Policyholder dividends on participating policies 26.9 26.3 27.2 26.9 Amortization of DAC 123.4 114.8 118.5 123.5 Amortization of VOBA 12.0 11.7 11.3 10.0 Interest expense on debt 26.1 26.8 28.0 27.1 Debt extinguishment costs — — 21.7 — Other operating expenses 203.8 201.3 208.4 220.3 Total benefits and expenses 862.9 874.9 908.6 905.4 Income from continuing operations before federal income taxes 218.6 193.7 154.5 189.3 Federal income tax expense (benefit) 59.5 50.1 (11.4 ) 34.5 Income from continuing operations 159.1 143.6 165.9 154.8 Discontinued operations, net of taxes 1.4 (2.4 ) 0.8 (24.5 ) Net income $ 160.5 $ 141.2 $ 166.7 $ 130.3 Earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 1.04 $ 0.94 $ 1.09 $ 1.01 Diluted $ 1.04 $ 0.93 $ 1.08 $ 1.01 Earnings per common share: Basic $ 1.05 $ 0.92 $ 1.09 $ 0.85 Diluted $ 1.05 $ 0.92 $ 1.08 $ 0.85 F-69 Table of Contents NATIONWIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Schedule I Consolidated Summary of Investments—Other Than Investments in Related Parties As of December 31, 2006 (in millions) Column A Column B Column C Column D Type of investment Cost Marketvalue Amount atwhich shownin theconsolidatedbalance sheet Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale: Bonds: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations $ 179.0 $ 189.1 $ 189.1 Agencies not backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government 564.5 608.4 608.4 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 274.7 268.0 268.0 Foreign governments 36.2 37.7 37.7 Public utilities 1,770.8 1,774.1 1,774.1 All other corporate 25,242.0 25,282.7 25,282.7 Total fixed maturity securities available-for-sale 28,067.2 28,160.0 28,160.0 Equity securities available-for-sale: Common stocks: Banks, trusts and insurance companies 23.5 31.2 31.2 Industrial, miscellaneous and all other 26.4 29.0 29.0 Nonredeemable preferred stocks 7.3 7.4 7.4 Total equity securities available-for-sale 57.2 67.6 67.6 Trading assets 22.7 24.3 24.3 Mortgage loans on real estate, net 8,922.8 8,909.8 1 Real estate, net: Investment properties 69.8 53.3 2 Acquired in satisfaction of debt 6.1 6.0 