Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below encompass many of the risks that could affect our company. Not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arrive and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business, the Asset Sale, and the Liquidation and Dissolution Recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and, if the Asset Sale or another similar transaction is not approved and consummated on a timely basis, the Geismar Facility does not return to operational status on a timely basis, and/or we do not obtain substantial new debt or equity financing on a timely basis, we would not likely have sufficient resources to continue operations and may be required to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. We have prepared our financial statements on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. Whether or not the Asset Sale is completed, there may be few, if any, assets available for distribution to our stockholders. We have incurred recurring operating losses and continue to have working capital funding obligations to Dynamic Fuels, notwithstanding the non-operational status of the Geismar Facility. If the Asset Sale or another similar transaction is not approved and consummated on a timely basis, the Geismar Facility does not return to operational status on a timely basis, and/or we do not obtain substantial new debt or equity financing on a timely basis, we would not likely have sufficient resources to continue operations and may be required to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. In such an event, it is possible that there would not be significant assets, or any assets, available for distribution to Syntroleum’s stockholders. If the Asset Sale is completed, our assets will primarily consist of REG common stock received as consideration for the Asset Sale and a cash reserve equal to the lesser of $5,300,000 and the amount of cash on hand at Syntroleum as of the closing of the transactions under the Asset Purchase Agreement, which represents the amount we estimate is reasonable to satisfy our known retained liabilities and expenses associated with the Asset Sale and the Liquidation and Dissolution. Even though we currently expect the cash reserve to be sufficient to pay, or provide for the payment of, all of our known retained liabilities and obligations, it is possible that, in the course of the dissolution process, unanticipated expenses and contingent liabilities will arise. If such liabilities exceed the cash reserve, we or our successor (such as a liquidating trust) will be required to sell a portion or all of the REG common stock received in the Asset Sale to satisfy our obligations before our dissolution, thereby reducing, and perhaps eliminating, the assets available for distribution to Syntroleum stockholders. Failure to complete the Asset Sale on a timely basis may result in us discontinuing our business and operations, negatively impact our stock price and/or reduce the assets available for distribution to Syntroleum’s stockholders. If the Asset Sale is not completed on a timely basis for any reason, we would be subject to a number of material risks, including that: • we may be unable to dispose of our assets for an aggregate amount equaling or exceeding our liabilities and obligations; • we would continue to have working capital funding obligations to Dynamic Fuels, notwithstanding the non-operational status of the Geismar Facility; 9 Table of Contents • we may be unable to secure additional capital or enter into an alternative business combination transaction; • we may be unable to continue defense of our intellectual property portfolio; • we would still be required to pay expenses incurred in connection with the Asset Sale, including financial advisory, legal and accounting fees, which we estimate to be approximately $3.27 million; • our employees, faced with uncertain futures in light of our financial condition, may seek alternative employment, which would have a negative impact on our ability to continue our operations; and • we may be required to pay REG a termination fee of $5 million pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement. The occurrence of any of the above events would impair our ability to conduct our operations and business and may force us to discontinue our operations altogether. Any such impairment or discontinuation would likely cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the price of our common stock may decline further if the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the Asset Sale or a similar business combination transaction will be completed. Additionally, if the Asset Sale is not completed on a timely basis and we are required to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief, there may be no assets available to distribute to Syntroleum’s stockholders. Even if our stockholders approve the Asset Sale, the Asset Sale may not be completed. The completion of the Asset Sale is subject to numerous closing conditions, some of which are out of our control, and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy all of the closing conditions set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement. Conditions to closing under the Asset Purchase Agreement include, for example, no material adverse change having occurred with respect to Syntroleum during the period prior to the closing of the Asset Sale and receipt of required third-party consents. As a result, even if the Asset Sale is approved by the required vote of our stockholders at the special meeting to be convened for that purpose, we cannot guarantee that the Asset Sale will be completed. Our stockholders could approve the Asset Sale proposal but vote against the Liquidation and Dissolution. Approval of the plan of dissolution is a necessary step for our stockholders to receive shares of REG common stock and for the Asset Sale and subsequent intended Liquidation and Dissolution to constitute a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If the transaction does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(C) Code, we and our stockholders will suffer material adverse tax consequences. The corporate level gain that we would recognize upon such a taxable sale of assets would be equal to the difference between our adjusted tax basis in such assets and the fair market value of all of the consideration received from REG in the Asset Sale (including without limitation all of the REG common stock issued by REG and all of the liabilities assumed by REG). Our tax liability associated with any such recognized gain, after taking into account the effect of any relevant and available Syntroleum tax attributes (e.g., current and carryover net operating losses and tax credits), is a liability that is not assumed by REG in accordance with the Asset Purchase Agreement, and it is anticipated that any such tax liability would be material. Further, our stockholders would incur a stockholder-level tax liability in the event that property (including shares of REG common stock or cash) is distributed to stockholders where the value of the property so distributed exceeds the applicable stockholder’s tax basis in their shares of our common stock (or where the distribution is characterized as a dividend for tax purposes). Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to dissolve following the closing of the Asset Sale, and a failure by our stockholders to approve the Liquidation and Dissolution would cause us to be in breach of our obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement. In addition, if we obtain stockholder approval of the Asset Sale and complete the Asset Sale, but do not obtain stockholder approval of the Liquidation and Dissolution, we would have to continue our business operations despite the sale of substantially all of our assets and our announced intent to liquidate and dissolve. Assuming the completion of the Asset Sale, we would have no assets with which to generate operating revenue and likely will have retained only those employees required to wind-up our corporate existence. Further, we do not intend to invest in another operating business following the closing of the Asset Sale. If the Liquidation and Dissolution is not approved, we would be required to use all or a significant portion of our remaining cash and the REG common stock received as consideration in the Asset Sale to pay taxes on the Asset Sale (as described above) and ongoing operating expenses. 10 Table of Contents We cannot determine at this time the amount or timing of any distributions to our stockholders because there are many factors, some of which are outside of our control, that could affect Syntroleum’s ability to make such distributions. If the Asset Sale is consummated, we cannot determine at this time when or potentially whether, we will be able to make any distributions to our stockholders or the amount of any such distributions. Those determinations depend on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of the closing of the Asset Sale; the amount we will be required to pay to satisfy unknown or contingent liabilities in the future; the cost of operating Syntroleum through the date of our final dissolution; inaccuracies in the cost estimates to resolve currently known contingent liabilities; general business and economic conditions; and other matters. We will continue to incur claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as operating costs, salaries, directors’ and officers’ insurance, payroll and local taxes, legal and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) as we seek to close the Asset Sale and effect Liquidation and Dissolution. Our estimates regarding our expense levels may be inaccurate. Any unforecasted or unexpected claims, liabilities or expenses that arise between the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the liquidation and final dissolution of Syntroleum or any claims, liabilities or expenses that exceed our estimates could leave us with less cash than is necessary to pay liabilities and expenses and would likely reduce the amount of REG common stock available for ultimate distribution to our stockholders. Further, if cash and the value of the REG common stock to be received in the Asset Sale are not adequate to provide for all of our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims, we will not be able to distribute any amount at all to our stockholders. The amount and value of REG common stock that we will ultimately distribute to our stockholders is subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Examples of uncertainties that could reduce the value of or eliminate distributions to our stockholders include the following: • the amount of our liabilities and obligations or the estimated costs and expenses of the Asset Sale and the operation of Syntroleum until the date it is authorized to make a distribution to its stockholders under the applicable provisions of Delaware law and the plan of dissolution could increase; • presently unknown or contingent liabilities of ours could later arise or become fixed in amount and we would be required to satisfy or reserve for these liabilities as part of the dissolution; • delays in completing the Asset Sale or delays in the timing of the dissolution of Syntroleum could result in additional fees and expenses and result in reduced distributions to our stockholders; and • the value of REG common stock could decline. For the foregoing reasons, there can be no assurance as to the timing and amount of distributions to our stockholders, even if the Asset Sale is completed. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we anticipate that our known retained liabilities as of the closing of the Asset Sale (together with the estimated liabilities to be incurred by us between the closing of the Asset Sale and the final dissolution of Syntroleum) will be approximately $1.43 million. Thus, assuming, among other things, that we are able to close the Asset Sale and that the cash reserve is sufficient to satisfy outstanding liabilities and outstanding expenses, we currently estimate that our stockholders would receive approximately 0.3809 shares of REG common stock per share of Syntroleum common stock. However, for the reasons set forth above, these amounts could be significantly less. We may be required under Delaware law or the Delaware Court of Chancery to hold back for distribution at a later date, if at all, some or all of the estimated amounts that we currently expect to distribute to our stockholders. 11 Table of Contents If we remain an independent company, we will need to obtain funds from additional financings or other sources for our business activities. If we do not receive these funds, we would need to reduce, delay or eliminate some of our expenditures. In the past we have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $11.4 million of cash and cash equivalents to fund operations and investing activities. We review cash flow forecasts and budgets periodically. If we were to remain an independent company, we expect that we may need to raise additional capital to accomplish our business plan over the next several years through debt or equity financing, joint ventures, license agreements, sale of assets, as well as various other financing arrangements. If we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued without stockholder approval and the terms could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms upon which such financing and capital might be available. Our agreement with Tyson concerning Dynamic Fuels allows us and Tyson, respectively, to elect not to invest in a plant or to cease making capital contributions in the construction of a plant under certain circumstances. Should Tyson or Syntroleum, as applicable, decide not to invest or to cease investing in the construction of a plant, the other participants in the applicable project will need to raise additional capital from third parties or to take on additional interest in the project and fund the additional capital internally. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise the additional capital from third parties on terms acceptable to us or to fund the additional capital requirements internally. Construction and operations of plants based on the Syntroleum® technologies will be subject to risks of delay and cost overruns. The construction and operation of plants based on our technologies will be subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns. Delays in construction or operation of the plant could directly impact the capital expenditures or working capital. Increases in costs could result in increased equity payments from parent companies. Shutdown of the Geismar Facility for an extended period could adversely affect Syntroleum’s financial position. The Geismar Facility has not operated since the completion of repairs in December 2012 and Syntroleum and Tyson have not agreed on the conditions necessary to re-start the Geismar Facility. In addition, any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility due to flooding, hurricane, fire or other extreme factors beyond Syntroleum’s control could damage its capital equipment or supporting infrastructure and materially impair the ability of the plant to operate. Such a disruption could result in lost revenues, increased costs and /or reduced profits. Similarly, the Geismar Facility may experience a prolonged start-up period, ranging from several days to several months. Further, it is possible that the Geismar Facility may never re-restart or operate profitably at all. We could experience disagreements with our joint venture partners which could adversely affect the operations or financial condition of our plants. The operation of Dynamic Fuels is to be controlled by representatives of Syntroleum and Tyson equally, with no member exercising exclusive control. Decisions surrounding operation and financing of the Geismar Facility generally require both members to agree. Disagreements between the members, such as surrounding the current non-operational status of the Geismar Facility, or a modification in the level of participation from one of the members could significantly impact the Geismar Facility and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have incurred losses. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $362.7 million. Because we do not have an operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be based, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by small companies seeking to develop new and rapidly evolving technologies. To address these risks we must, among other things, continue to attract investment capital, respond to competitive factors, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and commercialize our technologies. We may not be successful in addressing these risks, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 12 Table of Contents Our anticipated expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future operating activities and on historical financial data. Capital expenditures will depend on progress we make in developing various projects on which we are currently working. Increased revenues or cash flows may not result from these expenses. If prices or margins for crude oil, natural gas, coal, vegetable oil, biomass and fats and other commodities are unfavorable, plants based on the Syntroleum® technologies may not be economical. Because the products from plants utilizing our technologies are expected to compete in markets with conventional petroleum products, an increase in alternative feedstock prices relative to prices for oil, or a decrease in prices for oil relative to alternative feedstock prices, could adversely affect the operating results of these plants. Higher than anticipated costs for the feedstocks, catalysts and other materials used in these plants could also adversely affect operating results. Factors that could cause changes in the prices and availability of oil, natural gas, coal, biomass, fats, oils and refined products include: • changes in supply and demand balance of petroleum feedstocks, refined petroleum products, agricultural commodities variances impacted by crop yields, planting decisions, protein complex variances; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulation; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political conditions in countries producing feedstocks; • supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal, biomass fats, greases and oils; • fuel switching between various sources of energy (natural gas, coal, solar, fats, oils and greases, biomass, or other renewable or non-renewable); • capacities of pipelines; • seasonality; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. Our success depends on the performance of our executive officers and key personnel, the loss of who would disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the performance of our executive officers, Edward G. Roth, our Chief Executive Officer, Karen L. Power, our Senior Vice President and Principal Financial Officer, and certain key personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be constrained and the timing of implementation may be impacted if we are unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with several key employees. We depend on strategic relationships with feedstock suppliers, site owners engineering companies, and customers. If we are not successful in entering into and achieving the benefits of these relationships, this could negatively impact our business. 13 Table of Contents Our licensee’s typically enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers, construction contractors, engineering service companies, site owners, equipment manufacturers, and customers. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties or local government bodies, contractual arrangements with other companies, or minority investments from third parties. There can be no assurances that we or our licensees will be able to establish and maintain these strategic relationships. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic participants may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise incur in order to fulfill our obligations. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, our business may be negatively affected. We are significantly dependent on significant customers and the loss of one or more of such significant customers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was derived almost entirely from the provision of technical services to three customers, Dynamic Fuels, Sasol, and Sasol USA. The agreement pursuant to which we provide technical services to Dynamic Fuels is effective through the service life of the Geismar Facility; however, Dynamic Fuels is not obligated to issue any work orders to us nor are we obligated to accept any work orders issued by Dynamic Fuels. We have also had historical disagreements with Dynamic Fuels and Tyson regarding payment for the technical services that we performed for Dynamic Fuels. The agreement pursuant to which we historically provided technical services to Sasol terminated on March 1, 2013 upon the sale of our pilot plant to Sasol USA, an affiliate of Sasol. We continue to provide technical services to Sasol USA pursuant to an agreement that terminates on March 1, 2014, subject to Sasol USA’s right to extend the term of the agreement for up to two additional one-year terms. The loss of either of these significant customers, or our inability to collect revenue for technical services that we perform for these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our operating results may be volatile due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future annual and quarterly operating results because of the unpredictability of many factors that impact our business. These factors include: • government legislation, subsidies on renewable product, and varying domestic and international regulatory quotas; • volatile price of commodities used and produced; • overcapacity in the renewable fuels industry; • demand for licenses or other technology transfer agreements for our technologies and receipt and revenue recognition of license fees; • timing of any construction by us or our licensees of plants; • introduction or enhancement of FT and renewable fuels technologies by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new technologies; and • general economic conditions. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it may be that in some future year or quarter our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive laws relating to the protection of the environment, and these laws may increase the cost of designing, constructing and operating our plants based on our technologies or affect demand for the products of these plants. 14 Table of Contents If we violate any of the laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, we may be subject to substantial fines, criminal sanctions or third party lawsuits and may be required to install costly pollution control equipment or curtail operations. Plants built with our technologies will generally be required to obtain environmental, industrial siting, construction and numerous other permits. Compliance with these permits may increase the costs of designing, constructing and operating our plants or delay plant development. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may also face exposure to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters with respect to our previously owned real estate. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, or financial condition. Terrorist threats and U.S. military actions could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could occur. These and like developments could cause instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets and increase political and economic instability in the geographic areas in which we may wish to operate. These developments could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil, natural gas and the feedstocks for our plants and the cost and availability of insurance. In addition, these developments could adversely affect our ability to access capital. United States government regulations effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be expanded to cover countries where we may wish to operate in the future. These developments could subject the operations of our company to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance, such as a leak, fire or explosion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Technology We might not successfully commercialize our technology, and commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum’s® proprietary processes may never be successfully constructed or operated by ourselves or our licensees. We do not have significant experience managing the financing, design, construction or operation of commercial-scale plants, and we may not be successful in doing so. Although currently not operating, the Geismar Facility owned by Dynamic Fuels is our first commercial scale plant to be operational at any point in time based on our Bio-Synfining® technology. The Geismar Facility has never achieved profitability or operated at full design capacity on a continuous basis for any extended length of time. No commercial-scale plant based on Synfining® technology has been operational to date and a commercial-scale plant based on Synfining® technology may never be successfully built either by us or by our licensees. Success in commercializing Synfining® technology depends on our licensees’ ability to economically design, construct and operate commercial-scale plants, which depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Each of Syntroleum’s licensees will determine whether Syntroleum issues any plant site licenses to them. In addition, Syntroleum’s license agreements may be terminated by the licensee, with or without cause and without penalty, upon 90 days’ notice to Syntroleum. If Syntroleum does not receive payments under its license agreements, it may not have sufficient resources to implement its business strategy. Syntroleum’s licensees, other than Dynamic Fuels, are not restricted from pursuing alternative technologies on their own or in collaboration with others, including Syntroleum’s competitors. Commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® technologies might not produce results necessary for success, including results demonstrated on a laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration basis. 15 Table of Contents A variety of factors may impact the successful commercialization of the Syntroleum’s® technologies at a commercial plant, and may cause the results demonstrated in research and development efforts not to be replicated in a commercial plan. These factors include: • the use of feedstocks that are not consistent with the specifications of feedstocks used in research and development efforts, including feedstocks that have impurities, adulterants and/or contaminants requiring additional pretreatment or for which no pretreatment process is available; • feedstock supply interruptions; • failure of third party suppliers, contractors or technologies to deliver feedstocks, goods and/or services on specification; • catalyst activity (of all types) that are less than design basis which would require an increase in the amount of catalyst, and/or number of reactors required to produce at the design rate resulting in increased capital and operating costs; • shorter than anticipated catalyst life, which would require more frequent catalyst regeneration, catalyst replacements, or both, thereby increasing operating costs; • excessive production of gaseous or light hydrocarbons compared to design basis, which would lower the amount of desirable hydrocarbons produced, and reduce revenues and margins; • inability of third-party gasification and synthesis gas clean-up technology integrated into the Syntroleum® process to produce on specification synthesis gas adequate for economic operation of a FT plant; and • longer project cycles and/or higher than anticipated capital and operating costs including feedstock costs. In addition, we have encountered, and future plants could experience, mechanical difficulties related or unrelated to elements of the Syntroleum® technologies, including difficulties resulting from damage caused by contaminants, impurities and adulterants in renewable feedstocks. Many of our competitors have significantly more resources than we do, and technologies developed by competitors could become more commercially successful than ours or render our technologies obsolete. Development and commercialization of FT and renewable fuels technologies is highly competitive, and other technologies could become more commercially successful than ours. Our technologies are based on chemistry that has been used by several companies in synthetic fuel projects over the past 60 years. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies as well as independent technology providers that have developed or are developing competing technologies. These companies typically have significantly more resources than we do. As our competitors continue to develop competing technologies, one or more of our current technologies could become obsolete. Our ability to create and maintain technological advantages is critical to our future success. As new technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage forcing us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully develop or expend the financial resources necessary to acquire or develop new technology. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights involves complexities and uncertainties and commercialization of our technologies could give rise to claims that our technology infringes upon the rights of others. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and open art rights, which involves complex legal and scientific uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Patents may not be granted, and our existing patents might not provide us with commercial benefit or might be infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. The availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, is often difficult to predict and vary significantly from country to country. We, our licensors, or our licensees may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our technologies. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. 16 Table of Contents Commercialization of our technologies may give rise to claims that our technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others. We are currently involved in litigation concerning alleged infringement claims. We may not become aware of patents or rights that may have applicability until after we have made a substantial investment in the development and commercialization of our technology. Third parties may claim infringement. Legal actions could be brought against us, our co-venturers or our licensees claiming damages and seeking an injunction that would prevent us, our co-venturers or our licensees utilizing the affected technologies. If an infringement action were successful, in addition to potential liability for damages, our co-venturers, our licensees or we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to test, market or commercialize the affected technologies. Any required license might not be made available or, if available, might not be available on acceptable terms, and we could be prevented entirely from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technology. We may have to expend substantial resources in litigation, either in enforcing our patents, defending against the infringement claims of others, or both. Many possible claimants, such as the major energy companies that have competing technologies competitive with our technologies, have significantly more resources to spend on litigation. We could have potential indemnification liabilities to licensees relating to the operation of plants based on our Technologies or intellectual property disputes. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to us if intellectual property rights claims were to be made against us or our licensees, or if plants based on our technology were to fail to operate as designed. Generally our license agreements require us to indemnify the licensee, sometimes subject to certain limitations against specified losses relating to, among other things: • use of patent rights and technical information relating to the Syntroleum® technologies; • acts or omissions by us in connection with our preparation of process design packages for plants; and • performance guarantees that we may provide. Risks Relating to Renewable Fuels Industry The U.S. renewable fuels industry is highly dependent on a mix of international, federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes could harm our business and financial condition. The EISA and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPAct, established Renewable Fuel Standard 2, or RFS2, which requires that certain volumes of renewable fuels be consumed, which includes biomass based diesel, ethanol and other liquid fuel produced from biomass to be blended into the fuel supply. RFS2 is effective through 2022. Syntroleum believes that RFS2 has increased the demand for renewable diesel and that renewable diesel prices have benefited significantly from RFS2. However, there can be no assurance that the United States Congress will not repeal, curtail or otherwise change, or that the EPA will not curtail or otherwise change the RFS2 program in a manner adverse to Syntroleum. The petroleum industry is generally opposed to RFS2 and can be expected to continue to press for changes that eliminate or reduce its impact. Any repeal or reduction in the RFS2 requirements or reinterpretation of RFS2 resulting in Syntroleum’s renewable diesel failing to qualify as a required fuel would have a material adverse effect on Syntroleum’s financial condition and results of operations. The EPA is required to determine the volume of biomass-based diesel that will be required each year beginning in 2013 based on the EPA’s consideration of a variety of factors, including biomass-based diesel production, consumption, and infrastructure issues, the likely impact of biomass-based diesel production and use in a variety of areas, including climate change, energy security, the agricultural sector, air quality, transportation fuel costs, job creation, and water quality, and other factors. RFS2 requires that the biomass-based diesel annual volume requirement be at least 1 billion gallons in each of those years. The biomass-based diesel volume requirement for 2013 was 1.28 billion gallons. 17 Table of Contents As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the EPA has not finalized the 2014 Renewable Volume Obligations, or RVOs. The EPA has proposed a 2014 and 2015 biomass-based diesel RVO of 1.28 billion gallons in each of those years and a reduced Advanced Biofuel RVO of 2 to 2.51 billion gallons rather than the original Energy Independence and Security Act of 2009, or EISA, volume of 3.75 billion gallons for 2014. Before the RVO can be finalized, the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, has to approve EPA’s proposal, based on the same factors outlined above. Due to the one year delay publishing the proposal, which the EPA was required to determine and publish by November 30, 2012, it is possible that the 2014 RVOs will be challenged in court which may further delay any final determination of the 2014 RVOs, which could reduce the demand for and price of Syntroleum’s renewable diesel, which could have a negative impact on future revenues and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 