D. Risk Factors Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. In addition, the trading price of our ordinary shares and convertible notes could decline due to any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity. Risks Related to Our Business If capital spending on information technology, or IT, slows down, our business could be seriously harmed. We are affected by global economic changes, in particular trends in capital spending in the IT sector. During 2001 through 2003, the overall business slowdown in the North American and European markets influenced the purchasing patterns of leading software developers who delayed their planned orders and caused developers to reduce the amount of their planned license commitment. These changes in purchasing patterns in the IT industry directly affected our operating results. Although we believe that during the last three years the IT market has begun to recover, we cannot know whether the global market recovery will continue in the future, and how the economic conditions will continue to affect our business. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues or keep our revenues at the same level as in 2005 and 2006. Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. As part of our growth strategy, we have invested in and acquired control of various companies to expand our solution portfolio. We intend to continue seeking investment opportunities. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for these acquisitions and investments. The issuance of equity securities could dilute our existing shareholders. In addition, as part of our expansion strategy, we increased our controlling interest in some of our subsidiaries and fully integrated them within our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire, invest in, or increase our control interest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology, or products and service offerings into our own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions of new companies, like the recent acquisition of CodeStream Software Ltd., also involve the risk of penetrating markets in which we have no or limited experience. For more information about the acquisition of CodeStream, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview–Investments and Acquisitions–CodeStream.” 4 We have a limited operating history in our current principal markets, which will make it difficult or impossible for you to predict our future results of operations. We have experienced major fluctuations in our net results. In 2006, we generated $4.7 million net income from our operations. However, in 2002 and 2001 we had a net loss of $3.6 million and $15.0 million, respectively. The net loss in 2002 and 2001 was a reversal from prior years in which we had net income. The fluctuations in our net results are mainly attributable to the changes in the suite of modernization tools we have been offering to our customers, the limited experience we have had in the markets for these tools, the capital spending on information technology, and the difficulties we have encountered in introducing our tools to their respective markets. In addition, global economic conditions affect our net results. Most of the solutions we offer to our customers are based on tools that share a common generic technology and methodology. However, the introduction of new tools to new markets involves increased selling and marketing expenses, which in turn increases our operating expenses and directly affects our results of operations. Because of our limited experience in our principal markets and with our new products, we cannot assure you that our strategy for operating in these markets or selling these products will be successful. You should not rely on our historical results of operations as indications of future performance. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The IT modernization business is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our modernization tools and services. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the tools and services we offer to keep up with technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our tools and services or developing or acquiring new modernization tools and services that adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the tools and services we offer will be accepted by customers. If our tools and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment, customer requirements, and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current tools or develop new tools. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time, and other resources to meet the demand. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. We may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which makes it difficult to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares and convertible notes. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations are the result of risks related to the introduction of new products as described above and any of the following events: 5 — adverse economic conditions in various geographic areas where our customers and potential customers operate; — acquisitions and dispositions of companies; — timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; — timing of product releases; — timing of contracts; — increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; and — currency fluctuations and financial expenses related to our financial instruments. In addition, unexpected events that do not occur on a regular basis and that are difficult to predict may cause fluctuations in our operating results. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. A delay in collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages, which in turn may significantly impact our financial results. Typical modernization projects, which deploy our solutions, are long-term projects, and therefore, payment for these projects or a substantial portion of our fees may be delayed until the successful completion of specified milestones. In addition, the payment of our fees is dependent upon customer acceptance of the completed work, and our ability to collect the fees. Further, although the timing of receipt of our fees varies, we incur the majority of our expenses on a current basis. As a result, a delay in the collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages. To date, we have not experienced any significant payment delays that resulted in cash flow shortages. Any significant variation in estimated and actual revenues obtained may significantly impact our financial results in any given period. Mainsoft’s dependency on Microsoft .NET, an open-source implementation of Microsoft, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mainsoft’s Visual MainWin for J2EE has been developed based on the open-source Mono project led by Novell, which is an open-source implementation of the Microsoft .NET framework. Microsoft may claim that software developed based on the open-source Mono project infringes certain Microsoft patents. In addition, Microsoft may cease its business relationship and cooperation with companies using the open source Mono project, which may result in severe damage to Mainsoft’s ability to effectively market the Visual MainWin for J2EE product. Damage to Mainsoft’s relationship with Microsoft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 6 If we fail to address the strain on our resources caused by changes in our company, we will be unable to effectively manage our business. In the past few years, we have undergone significant changes in our product offerings. These changes include acquiring new technologies, developing and marketing new modernization and porting tools and expanding the sales of our products further into international markets. This has placed and will continue to place substantial demands upon our management, systems, and resources, including our sales, project management, consulting personnel, and software development operations. Our ability to manage any future changes or growth depends on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial, and management information control and reporting systems on a timely basis, and to expand, train, motivate, and manage our work force. If we cannot respond effectively to changing business conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to manage the effects of the variations in our offering portfolio, our results will be adversely affected. We specialize in the development and implementation of sophisticated software modernization and porting tools and products. We leverage our know-how, experience and generic technologies, to develop and introduce new software tools that enable the modernization of legacy systems. The need for our modernization solutions changes over time, and recent regulations or newly introduced technologies may create new needs for modernization solutions. As part of our growth strategy, as a new need evolves, we typically conduct a market analysis to qualify and quantify the market opportunity. If the results justify the investment required for the development of new products or tools, then we begin the development process of the new product. In order to maintain our position in the market, and our ability to address the constantly changing needs of the marketplace, we continually invest in the development of new products. The net annual expense related to research and development was $9.4 million in 2006, $8.0 million in 2005 and $8.1 million in 2004. In order to properly introduce a new product to the marketplace or to introduce our current products into new markets, we continuously update our marketing materials, educate our sales force and make changes to our operations. If these activities are not completed in a timely manner, our new product introduction may be delayed and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel for our worldwide facilities at competitive prices, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. In order to achieve our objectives, we hire from time to time additional qualified software, administrative, operational, sales, and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training, and successfully integrating qualified personnel can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. As part of our growth strategy, we developed offshore centers in Cyprus and Romania. We hired professional consultants for these development centers, leveraging the lower employer costs that existed in these countries. Recently, professional work in these countries became more expensive and professional fees may continue to increase in the future. As a result, we may consider establishing alternative off-shore facilities in other countries. The establishment of additional off-shore facilities may result in significant capital expenses which may affect our cash position. We cannot assure you that our off-shore facilities will be profitable. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified professional employees worldwide at competitive prices. 7 If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we may agree to a price before the design specifications are finalized, which could result in a fixed price that is too low, resulting in lower margins or losses to us. If our tools or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our modernization solutions, the project team conducts testing to detect the existence of failures, errors and bugs. If our modernization solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our tools, we might incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem. The consequences of failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of damages claims. In the event that we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations from the results of the implementation of our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, these customers may suffer damages. When and if this occurs, customers may have the ability to cancel our contracts. Any cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages, since we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to claims as a result of not delivering our products on time or in a satisfactory manner. Such disputes or others may lead to material damages. 8 We are exposed to significant claims for damage caused to our customers’ information systems. Some of the products, tools, and services we provide involve key aspects of our customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. We have never been the subject of a material damages claim related to our modernization solutions or modernization services. However, if a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of modernization solutions or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our modernization solutions, we are exposed to the risk of a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We cannot guarantee that the limitations of liability under our product and service contracts, if any, would be sufficient to protect us against legal claims. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. If third parties assert claims of infringement against us, we may suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. Software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Although our products and services have never been the subject of an infringement proceeding, we cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us. In addition, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties. A breach of the nondisclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim if submitted may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our employees and contractors have direct access to our technology. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright, and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. 9 Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place, in escrow, the source code of certain of our software. Pursuant to the escrow arrangements, the software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time to time, we also provide our software directly to customers. These factors may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. We are exposed to litigation that could result in considerable financial liabilities. In July 2003, a former Liraz shareholder filed an application with the Tel-Aviv-Jaffa District Court to approve a claim filed by him against us, as a class action. The claim relates to the acquisition of Liraz shares, which we completed in March 2003. The shareholder alleges that the share price we paid to Liraz’s shareholders in the tender offer and in a subsequent mandatory purchase was lower than the fair price of Liraz shares. The maximum amount of the claim is approximately NIS 30.5 million ($7.3 million) in the aggregate. Under Israeli law, the court’s approval is required for the plaintiff to represent all of the shareholders of Liraz who sold their shares to us pursuant to the tender offer and the mandatory acquisition. The plaintiff has applied for such approval in the lawsuit. If we are not successful in defending this claim, we could be exposed to considerable financial liabilities and, as a result, our financial condition could be materially adversely harmed. Our largest shareholder, Formula, controls a majority of our ordinary shares and influences the outcome of matters that require shareholder approval. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd., referred to as Formula, owns, as of March 22, 2007, 52.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Therefore, Formula has the power to control the outcome of most matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Gad Goldstein, the chairman of our board, and president and chief executive officer of Formula, directly owns 230,628 ordinary shares, representing 1.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Gad Goldstein owns 2.5% of the outstanding shares of Formula. This share ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Although Israeli law imposes certain procedures (including shareholder approval) for approval of certain related party transactions, including certain of those between us and Formula, we cannot assure you that these procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of conflicts of interest. If certain transactions are not approved in accordance with required procedures under applicable Israeli law, these transactions may be void or voidable. Our existing credit facilities contain a number of restrictions and obligations that limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. These covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to pledge our assets, dispose of assets, make loans or give guarantees, make certain acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. Our credit facilities also contain covenants regarding maintaining certain financial ratios. See “Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – How We Have Financed Our Business.” 10 Our ability to continue to comply with these and other obligations depends in part on the future performance of our business. There can be no assurance that such obligations will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business. In particular, any noncompliance with performance-related covenants and other undertakings of our credit facilities could result in an acceleration of our outstanding debt under our credit facilities and restrict our ability to obtain additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In some circumstances, a change of control of BluePhoenix will constitute an event of default under our credit facilities and we could be required to repay our debts to the banks. If this occurs, we may not have the financial resources to repay all of our outstanding debt. This also may adversely affect the attractiveness of our company to potential large investors. Our failure to fulfill our obligations under our credit facility agreements, convertible debentures or other financial arrangements will adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and net results. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from existing cash, investments and our operations. Our failure to fulfill our obligations under our credit facilities, the convertible debentures or our other financial arrangements, will have significant negative consequences, including, without limitation: — requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; — increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; — limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; — placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and — causing a material offset to our results, resulting decreased net profits or increased net losses. We may not be able to make our debt payments in the future. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our strategy, as well as on financial, competitive, and other factors, including some factors that are beyond our control. Most of our debt and credit facilities bear an interest rate based on the LIBOR. If the LIBOR materially increases, our cash flows will be negatively affected. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt, we may have to refinance all or part of our indebtedness. In case we have to increase our indebtedness, the additional financing expenses will have a negative affect on our results, which cannot be predicted. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on, among other things: — our financial condition at the time; 11 — restrictions in agreements governing our debt; and — other factors, including market conditions. We cannot ensure that any such refinancing would be possible on terms that we could accept or that we could obtain additional financing. If refinancing will not be possible or if additional financing will not be available, we may have to sell our assets under circumstances that might not yield the highest prices, or default on our debt obligations, which would permit our noteholders and holders of other outstanding indebtedness to accelerate their maturity dates. If we incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our debt obligations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to International Operations Marketing our tools and solutions in international markets may cause increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide sales, we need to establish additional marketing and sales operations, hire additional personnel, and recruit additional resellers internationally. To the extent that we are unable to do so effectively, our growth is likely to be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Risks inherent in our worldwide business activities generally include: — currency exchange devaluations; — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; — tariffs and other trade barriers; — costs of localizing products for foreign countries; — lack of acceptance of localized products.; — longer accounts receivable payment cycles; — difficulties in operations of management; — potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and — the burdens of complying with a wide variety of local legislation. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Inflation, devaluation and fluctuation of various currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities and assets. We run our operations in various countries. As a result, we enter into transactions with customers and suppliers in local currencies. The fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in countries where we operate can adversely affect the reflection of these activities in our consolidated financial statements. Fluctuations in the value of our non-dollar revenues, costs and expenses measured in dollars could materially affect our results of operations. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. The reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our business is the U.S. dollar. We enter, from time to time, into forward currency exchange contracts or other arrangements in order to hedge this foreign currency exposure. Such arrangements may not always be effective or sufficient to offset the fluctuations in currency exchange rates. For additional information relating to the exchange rates between different relevant currencies, see “Item 5. – Our Reporting Currency.” Fluctuations in foreign currency values affect the prices of our products, which in turn may affect our business and results of operations. Most of our worldwide sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and euros while our reporting currency is the dollar. A decrease in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies, in particular the euro, Danish kroner (DKK) and the NIS would make our products more expensive and increase our operating costs and, therefore, could adversely affect our results and harm our competitive position in the markets in which we compete. We are subject to multiple taxing jurisdictions. If we fail to estimate accurately the amount of income tax due in any of these jurisdictions, our net income might be affected. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to taxation by these jurisdictions at various tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We cannot assure you that the final tax outcome of these issues will not be different than management estimates, which are reflected in our income tax provisions. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such outcome occurs. 13 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect our operations. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. During July and August 2006, major hostilities broke out between Israel and both Palestinian factions in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon, leading to an escalation of the conflict in the area. Major towns and settlements in northern Israel, including Haifa, Naharia, Safed and Karmiel, were under attack from Hezbollah missiles. Such conflicts, as well as the execution of Israel’s plan of unilateral disengagement from the Gaza Strip and some parts of the West Bank and Hamas’ gaining majority of the Palestinian Parliament in the elections held in 2006, may affect Israel’s security, foreign relations and the stability of the region. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, many of our male employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty typically until 45 years of age and in some cases up to 54 years of age, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since our incorporation, we cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. It may be difficult to serve process and enforce judgments against our directors and officers in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to: — effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors who are nonresidents of the United States; — enforce court judgments obtained in the United States including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors that are nonresidents of the United States, in the United States or Israel; and — bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. Risks Related to our Traded Securities The market price of our convertible notes and ordinary shares may be volatile and our investors may not be able to resell the notes or the shares at or above the price they paid, or at all. During the past few years, the worldwide stock markets have experienced high price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect market price of our ordinary shares. The high and low market price of our ordinary shares traded on the Nasdaq Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE, during each of the last three years, are summarized in the table below: 14 Nasdaq Global Market In $ TASE In NIS High Low High Low 2006 6.45 3.85 18.30 28.99 2005 4.75 3.81 21.95 16.01 2004 7.49 3.71 33.80 17.00 The market price of our ordinary shares may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: — any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors' quarterly revenues and operating results; — shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; — public announcements concerning us or our competitors; — the introduction or market acceptance of new products or service offerings by us or by our competitors; — changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; — changes in security analysts' financial estimates; — changes in accounting principles; — sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and — the loss of any of our key personnel. In addition, economic, political, and market conditions and military conflicts and, in particular, those specifically related to the State of Israel, may affect the market price of our shares. In February 2006, we completed an underwritten public offering in Israel of series A convertible notes, referred to in this annual report as the convertible notes, in an aggregate principal amount of NIS 54.0 million that were equal at that time to approximately $11.5 million. Following the offering, the convertible notes have been listed for trading on the TASE. The trading price of the convertible notes depends on many factors, including but not limited to, prevailing interest rates, the trading price of our ordinary shares, the market for similar securities and general economic conditions. Therefore, the trading price of the convertible notes could be subject to significant fluctuations. Additionally, it is possible that the market for the convertible notes will be subject to disruptions that may have a negative effect on the holders of the convertible notes, regardless of our prospects or financial performance. During 2006, the market price of our convertible notes traded on the TASE, fluctuated between NIS 1.06 and NIS 1.02. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares trade on the NASDAQ Global Market and the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets take place in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 15 Future sales of our shares to be registered for resale in the public market, as well as conversion of our convertible securities, could dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price for our ordinary shares or convertible notes to fall. As of March 22, 2007, we had 15,374,124 ordinary shares outstanding (excluding 1,647,594 held by two of our wholly owned subsidiaries). In addition, we reserved 2,145,017 ordinary shares for issuance under our option plans. We also have certain commitments described below to issue BluePhoenix ordinary shares and register them for resale, as follows: — 691,105 ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of debentures issued to institutional investors in connection with the $5 million private placement completed in March 2004; — 485,714 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to institutional investors in connection with the $5 million and $3 million private placements, completed in March 2004 and March 2006, respectively; and — 2,059,064 ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes traded on the TASE sold by us in a public offering in Israel in February 2006. For information about the debentures and the warrants issued to the institutional investors, see “Item 5.B Liquidity and Capital Resources – Contractual Commitments and Guarantees.” The conversion of some or all of the convertible debentures held by the institutional investors, the exercise of options and warrants held by investors, and the conversion of the convertible notes traded on the TASE, would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. In addition, certain of our shareholders, holding in the aggregate 9,655,663 ordinary shares, have registration rights with respect to the shares they hold, including piggyback rights. For more information about these rights, see “Item 7.B Related Party Transactions – Registration Rights Agreements.” If a large number of our ordinary shares are sold in a short period, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decrease. In addition, the price of our ordinary shares could be affected by possible sales of our ordinary shares by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our ordinary shares. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the convertible notes. 16 We may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders of ordinary shares. If we were classified as a PFIC, a U.S. holder of ordinary shares could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” United States holders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares as well as the specific application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed discussion, see “Taxation–United States Federal Income Tax Considerations–Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 