D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business In the past we have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. If these trends continue in the future, it would adversely affect our financial condition. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in the past. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced a net loss of $38.2 million and negative cash flows from operations of $7.6 million. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition, including our failure to meet certain covenants included in our existing credit facilities. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future, that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred, that we will be able to satisfy the covenants in our credit facilities, that we will be able to reduce operating expenses or that we will be able to find alternative financing if necessary. If these trends continue, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We failed to meet some of the covenants included in our existing credit facilities. If we are unable to restructure these credit facilities or find alternative financing, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of March 25, 2011, we had an aggregate of $12.3 million of outstanding loans to banks under our credit facilities provided by four Israeli banks in the amounts of $5.8 million, $2.5 million, $2.25 million and $1.75 million. Each loan agreement contains covenants regarding our maintenance of certain financial ratios, and based on our operating results for 2010, we failed to meet the covenants requiring that our accumulated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the last subsequent quarter not be less than $5 million and that our shareholders equity not be less than $50 million to $70 million (depending on the bank’s requirements). As a result, one of the banks requested that we accelerate repayment of our loan in the amount of $2.5 million. Accordingly, this loan is now payable in installments until full repayment in the original maturity date, in September 2011, rather than the whole amount being payable in September 2011. As a result of the foregoing, all of these loans are classified as short-term debt. We are currently seeking to restructure the terms of our credit facilities and negotiating revised agreements with the banks. The revised agreements are expected to include an amended set of covenants and a floating charge on our assets and a fixed charge on our goodwill, as well as certain other fixed charges, in favor of the banks. However, we cannot assure you that we ultimately reach an agreement with the banks or that such agreements will be on favorable terms to us. Our ability to restructure or refinance our credit facilities depends on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition. Any refinancing of our existing credit facilities could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with different covenants, which could restrict our business operations. 4 If we are unsuccessful in restructuring our credit facilities, the banks could accelerate all of our outstanding debt and we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations. As a result, we could be required to dispose of material assets or operations or raise alternative funding through the issuance of debt or equity securities. There is no assurance that we would be able to consummate such dispositions or that we will be able to raise additional cash or obtain financing through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities in terms that are favorable to us or advantageous to our existing shareholders. If we fail to restructure or otherwise repay our debt, or if we are required to use a significant portion or all of our cash and current assets to repay our debt, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to pledge our assets, dispose of assets, make loans or give guarantees, make certain acquisitions, and engage in mergers or consolidations. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions and decreases in capital expenditures by our customers, particularly in the financial services and banking sector, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our revenue is dependent upon the strength of the worldwide economy. In particular, we depend upon our customers making continuing capital investments in information technology products, such as those marketed and sold by us. These spending levels are impacted by the worldwide level of demand for enterprise legacy IT modernization solutions and services. Demand for these is normally a function of prevailing global or regional economic conditions and is negatively affected by a general economic slow-down as consumers reduce discretionary spending on information technology upgrades. Our results were particularly affected due to declines in our target market of the financial services industry. In 2010 and 2009, approximately 40% and 44% of our revenues, respectively, was derived from the financial services industry. We believe that the financial services industry continues to be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions. In addition, consolidation in the financial services industry has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of customers and overall spending on our products. These factors also contributed to a reduction in prices we obtain for our products and services. Although there have been indications that the economy may be improving in many areas, this has not resulted in an increase in purchases by our customers. Our revenues decreased significantly from $91.7 million in 2008 to $77.8 million in 2009 and to $57.1 million in 2010. We expect our revenues to further decrease in 2011. We have identified and continue to experience delays in purchase order placement by our customers and longer sales cycles. We believe that the significant downturn in the economy caused our customers to react by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. The negotiation process with our customers has developed into a lengthy and expensive process. In addition, many of our customers have delayed or cancelled information technology projects. Customers with excess information technology resources have chosen and may continue to choose to develop in-house software solutions rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. 5 We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or any subsequent recovery, particularly with respect to the financial services industry. If the conditions in the markets in which we operate remain the same or worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We had negative cash flows from operations in 2010 which, if we are not successful in implementing our restructuring plan in 2011, may continue. We had negative operating cash flows of $7.6 million in 2010.The change in operating cash flow is primarily attributable to the significant decrease in revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 and 2008. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2009 and 2010, we reduced our workforce during 2009 and 2010. However, we performed most of our reductions in workforce in the latter half of 2010, since we had to keep our workforce for completion of ongoing projects. Due to this, as well as severance and other termination costs, our labor costs were not reduced commensurate with our reduction in revenues. As labor costs constitute a substantial majority of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, we incurred significant losses and negative cash flow in 2010. We intend to implement a further cost restructuring for 2011, which is expected to result in further severance and other termination costs. This planned restructuring, together with the cost saving plan conducted in 2009 and 2010, are intended to set our expenses at a level commensurate with expected revenue levels. There can be no assurance, however, that such plans will result in reduced expense levels commensurate with our reduced level of revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our customers could reduce our revenues and profitability. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our current and historical net revenues. In 2010, sales to Skandinavisk Data Center A/S (SDC) accounted for 15.9% of our revenues. In 2009, no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. In 2008, sales to The Capita Group Plc accounted for approximately 10% of our revenues. In 2010, we terminated the employment of 38 employees previously employed by us in Denmark. As a result, we anticipate a reduction of approximately $5 million to $6 million in our annual revenues. 6 The loss of any major customer or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customer could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products and solutions as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from our product, BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder. A reduction in number of our customers for this product could reduce our revenues and profitability. In 2010, approximately 20% of our revenues were derived from our product BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder. The comparative high margin of this product causes our sales of this product to have a significant impact on our overall profitability. In recent years, there was a continuing trend of slight decrease in the number of customers for this product. In addition, BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder is a development environment based on the MDA (model driven architecture) approach, which has been considered in the past, as a main stream development architecture. However, as of today, there are newer methodologies that are more widely adopted (like extreme programming or agile dev elopment), utilizing development languages like JAVA and .Net. Our revenues from BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder in 2010 decreased 6.5% compared to our revenues from BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder in 2009. In 2009, those revenues decreased 7.2% compared to 2008. If our revenues from this product continue to decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. For more information about BluePhoenix™ AppBuilder, see “Item 4.B. Our Business-AppBuilder.” If we do not succeed in competing in the Israeli market for our information and communication technology services, our revenues may decreased. One of our subsidiaries, Liacom Systems Ltd. (Liacom), provides consulting services, primarily to the Israeli market. Liacom’s revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010 accounted for 8%, 11% and 17% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. Liacom’s revenues in 2009 increased by 11% compared to its revenues in 2008, and the revenues in 2010 increased by 18% compared to the revenues in 2009. The Israeli market is crowded with various companies offering information and communication technology services similar to those provided by us. We believe that we have an advantage of leadership, knowledge and experience, but our prices are not always competitive. Our consulting services include project management and additional services provided by us following the implementation of the project management. Accordingly, whenever we complete these types of projects, the customer has the option to use its internal resources for the ongoing activities, to continue working with us or use one of our competitors. If our customers select one of our competitors to provide these services, our revenues would decrease and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Our failure to successfully integrate new businesses acquired by us could disrupt our business, dilute your holdings in us, and harm our financial condition and operating results. In previous years, we acquired and increased our investment in several businesses. For example, in 2007, we purchased the outstanding share capital of Amalgamated Software North America Inc. (ASNA) for total consideration of $7.0 million. In December 2010, we sold our holdings in ASNA, including its holding interest in a Spanish affiliated company, for a consideration of $2.0 million. As a result of the sale, we recorded a capital loss of $ 4.0 million. 7 Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · problems combining the acquired operations, technologies, or products; · unanticipated costs or liabilities; · diversion of management’s attention; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations; and · impairment of intangible assets related to acquisitions. Further, products that we acquire from third parties often require significant expenditures of time and resources to upgrade and integrate with our existing product suite. We may not be able to successfully integrate any business, technologies or personnel that we have acquired or those we might acquire in the future, and this could harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, your holdings would be diluted if we issue equity securities in connection with any acquisition, as we did in the acquisition of CodeStream Software Ltd. For more information about these transactions, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview-Investments and Acquisitions.” If we are unable to effectively control our costs while maintaining our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations and, in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships while protecting profitability and cash flow. However, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses due to the ongoing need to maintain our worldwide customer service and support operations and to invest in research and development. In circumstances of reduced overall demand for our products, or if orders received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our fixed cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to economic downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. We experienced a significant decrease in revenues in 2010 compared to 2009 and 2008 based on adverse economic conditions. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2009 and 2010, we reduced our workforce during 2009 and 2010. However, we performed most of our reductions in workforce in the latter half of 2010, since we had to keep our workforce for completion of ongoing projects. Due to this, as well as severance and other termination costs, our labor costs were not reduced commensurate with our reduction in revenues. As labor costs constitute a substantial majority of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, we incurred significant losses and negative cash flow in 2010. 8 Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our IT solutions. If we have too aggressively reduced our costs, we may not have sufficient resources to capture new IT projects, timely comply with project delivery schedules and meet customer demand. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity to capitalize on periods of economic upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The IT modernization business is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our modernization tools and services. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the tools and services we offer in order to keep up with technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our tools and services, or developing or acquiring new modernization tools and services that adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the tools and services we offer will be accepted by customers. If our tools and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory e nvironment and customer requirements, and new product introductions by existing or future competitors, could render our existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current tools or develop new tools. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time, and other resources to meet the demand. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. Furthermore, modernization projects deal with customer mission critical applications, and therefore encapsulate risk for the customer. Therefore, customers are more cautious in entering into transactions with us, and accordingly, the process for approval and signing of deals may be a lengthy and expensive. We make efforts to mitigate such risks associated with legacy modernization projects but from time to time we encounter delays in the negotiation process. We may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which makes it difficult to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations can occur as a result of any of the following events: · global economic trends; · global political trends, in particular, in the middle east and in countries in which we operate; · adverse economic conditions in various geographic areas where our customers and potential customers operate; · acquisitions and dispositions of companies; · timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; 9 · timing of product releases; · timing of contracts; · increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; and · currency fluctuations and financial expenses related to our financial instruments. In particular, we have experienced a significant decrease in our revenues over the last three fiscal years. Such decreases were primarily due to a decline in the number of our customers and a decrease in our prices, mostly in our legacy modernization projects. These decreases resulted from the continuing effects of the worldwide economic downturn and uncertainty, particularly in the financial services and banking sector which is our target market. As a result of market uncertainty, we identified delays in our customers’ placement of purchase orders and longer sales cycles. We expect revenues in 2011 to further decrease due to these factors, including a continuing decrease in the number of our legacy modernization projects. We intend to implement a further cost restructuring for 2011, which is expected to result in further severance and other termination costs. However, there can be no assurance that such reduced expenses will be commensurate with our reduced level of revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, unexpected events that do not occur on a regular basis and that are difficult to predict may cause fluctuations in our operating results. In 2010 and 2009, as a result of a delay in delivery of a large project, we charged additional $3.6 million and $2.8 million, respectively, of costs incurred by us. In 2010 and 2009, we had losses from continuing operations of approximately $38.1 million and $15.3 million, respectively. These losses were attributable to a number of factors described above, as well as impairment tests of goodwill performed by us on overall IT modernization reporting resulting in impairment losses of $13.2 million in 2010 and $5.7 million in 2009, and which were charged to operations. Additional losses in 2010 were attributable to costs incurred on the sale of one of our subsidiaries and changes in foreign c urrencies that affected our financial expenses. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. A delay in collecting our fees could result in cash flow shortages, which in turn may significantly impact our financial results. Typical modernization projects which deploy our solutions are long-term projects. Therefore, payment for these projects or a substantial portion of our fees may be delayed until the successful completion of specified milestones. In addition, the payment of our fees is dependent upon customer acceptance of the completed work and our ability to collect the fees. Further, although the timing of receipt of our fees varies, we incur the majority of our expenses on a current basis. As a result, a delay in the collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages. In order to improve our liquidity, we entered into sale of receivables’ agreements with a number of institutions, with regard to some of our customers, pursuant to which, control, credit risk and legal isolation of those trade receivables were fully transferred. If the scop e of these transactions decreases, our cash flow during the quarter would be harmed and our revenues for the respective quarter will be delayed to the next quarter. 10 If we are unable to invest in new products and markets or to manage the effects of changes in our offering portfolio, our results will be adversely affected. We specialize in the development and implementation of sophisticated software modernization and porting tools and products. We leverage our know-how, experience, and generic technologies to develop and introduce new software tools that enable the modernization of legacy systems. The need for our modernization solutions changes over time, and recent regulations or newly introduced technologies may create new needs for modernization solutions. As part of our growth strategy, as new needs evolve, we typically conduct a market analysis to qualify and quantify the market opportunity. If the results justify the investment required for the development of new products or tools, then we begin the development process of the new product. In order to maintain our position in the market, and our ability to address the constantly changing needs of the marketplace, we continually invest in the development of new products. Due to a decline in our revenues, we have had to reduce our research and development expenditures. Our research and development costs were $6.7 million for 2010, compared to $11.4 million and $18.4 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, which means a decrease of 41% in 2010 compared to 2009 and a 38% decrease in 2009 compared to 2008. These decreases resulted in large part from decreased head count in research and development. There can be no assurances that our continued investment in research and development will result in us maintaining or increasing our market share. Such a failure to maintain market share could result in a further decline in our revenues and operating results. Moreover, if we seek to increase our research and development expenses without a corresponding increase in revenues, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements, in which case our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our failure to invest in new products and markets or to manage the effects of changes in our offering portfolio could result in our loss of market share, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Our results have been adversely affected by the impairment of the value of certain intangible assets, and we may experience impairment charges in the future. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, include, among other things, goodwill valued at approximately $37.0 million, research and development costs valued at approximately $5.6 million, intangible assets related to customers’ relations valued at approximately $1.6 million and other intangible assets valued at approximately $1.8 million. The applicable accounting standards require that: · goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to an annual impairment test. We perform an annual impairment test, as well as periodic impairment tests if impairment indicators are present. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The carrying amount of these assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value (usually discounted cash flow) of the impaired asset; and 11 · acquired technology and development costs of software that is intended for sale that were incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility of the relevant product, be capitalized and tested for impairment on a regular basis, and written down when capitalized costs exceed net realizable value. In 2010 and 2009, we performed impairment tests and identified losses of $13.2 million and $5.7 million, respectively, related to goodwill of our overall IT modernization reporting unit which were charged to operations. The impairment of these assets was due, in part, a reduction in future expected cash flows from these reporting units and reduction in our market capitalization. If we continue to experience reduced cash flows and our market capitalization stays below the value of our equity, or actual results of operations differ materially from our modeling estimates and related assumptions, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. If our goodwill or capitalized research and development costs were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to our failure to achieve our goals, or if we fail to accurately predict the useful life of the capitalized research and development costs, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets. Such write-offs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. In order to achieve our objectives, we hire from time to time software, administrative, operational, sales, and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training, and successfully integrating qualified personnel can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. Such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As part of our expansion strategy, we developed offshore centers in Romania and Russia. We hired professional consultants for these development centers, leveraging the lower employer costs that existed in these countries. In recent years, professional work in these countries became more expensive and professional fees may continue to increase in the future. The establishment of additional offshore facilities, if that occurs, may result in significant capital expenses, which may affect our cash position. We cannot assure you that our offshore facilities will continue to be cost effective. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified professional employees worldwide at competitive prices. 12 If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments based upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we may agree to a price before the design specifications are finalized, which could result in a fixed price that is too low, resulting in lower margins or losses to us. For example, in 2010 and 2009, as a result of a delay in delivery of a large project, we incurred expens es of $3.6 million and $2.8 million, respectively. These costs constituted losses on these fixed-price contracts. If our tools or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our modernization solutions, the project team conducts testing to detect the existence of failures, errors, and bugs. If our modernization solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our tools, we may incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem. The consequences of failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, we may be required to pay penalties, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of damages claims. In the event that we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations from the results of the implementation of our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, these customers may suffer damages. When and if this occurs, we may be required under the customer agreement to pay penalties to our customers or pay their expenses (as occurred in 2009 and 2010) and our customers may have the ability to cancel our contracts. Payments of penalties or a cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages. In addition, we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to claims as a result of not delivering our products on time or in a satisfactory manner. Such disputes or others may lead to material damage s. We are exposed to significant claims for damage caused to our customers’ information systems. Some of the products, tools, and services we provide involve key aspects of our customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. If a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of modernization solutions or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our modernization solutions, we are exposed to the risk of a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We cannot guarantee that the limitations of liability under our product and service contracts, if any, would be sufficient to protect us against legal claims. We cannot assure you that our in surance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. 13 If third parties assert claims of infringement against us, we may suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. Software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us. In addition, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties. A breach of the nondisclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim, if submitted, may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience greater than expected competition that could have a negative effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive market. Competition in the modernization field is, to a large extent, based upon the functionality of the available automated tools and personnel expertise. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sale of their modernization tools and services, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to emerging opportunities and changes in technology or customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase such competitors’ ability to successfully market their tools and services. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. As we develop new tools and services, we may b egin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. Our competitors include: · small vendors who provide specific solutions for a particular area of modernization, such as Ateras, Anubex, Migrationware, Alchemy solutions, HTWC, Speedware, Most and Clerity. · large system integrators such as IBM, HP, Accenture and Cap Gemini, some of whom we also partner with; 14 · software houses such as Micro Focus and Metaware; · Indian system integrators such as TCS, WIPRO, Infosys and Patni; · Knowledge management (KM) competitors like eGain, Inquire, Right Now, Kana and Consona; We may be unable to differentiate our tools and services from those of our competitors, or successfully develop and introduce new tools and services that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have or acquire more extensive development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our customers or prospective customers will not result in price reductions for our tools and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our employees and contractors have direct access to our technology. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place, in escrow, the source code of certain software. Under the escrow arrangements, the software may, in specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time-to-time, we also provide our software directly to customers. These factors may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. 15 We are exposed to litigation that could result in considerable financial liabilities. In June 2003, a former Liraz shareholder filed an application with the Tel-Aviv-Jaffa District Court to approve a claim filed by him against us as a class action. The claim relates to the acquisition of Liraz shares, which we completed in March 2003. The shareholder alleges that the share price we paid to Liraz’s shareholders in the tender offer and in a subsequent mandatory purchase was lower than the fair price of Liraz shares. The maximum amount of the claim is approximately NIS 38.9 million ($10.8 million) in the aggregate. Under Israeli law, the court’s approval is required for the plaintiff to represent all of the shareholders of Liraz who sold their shares to us pursuant to the tender offer and the mandatory acquisition. The plaintiff has applied for such approval in the lawsuit. Since the critical issue in our case co ncerns the basis upon which the fair price of shares purchased within the context of a tender offer is to be determined, and due to the fact that this particular issue has come before the Supreme Court of Israel in an appeal concerning another separate case, the plaintiff in our claim has agreed to postpone the proceedings until the Supreme Court has given its decision in the appeal. In December 2009, the Supreme Court held that, as a general rule, the fair price of shares purchased within the context of a full tender offer shall be determined in accordance with the discounted cash flow method. The plaintiff in our case was supposed to notify the court whether he wishes to renew the proceedings. As of the date of this annual report, the plaintiff has not yet applied to the court. See also “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” Based on our analysis of the statement of claim, including an evaluation of the fair value of the Liraz shares, and the price paid for Liraz in a previous transaction immediately prior to the tender offer, we believe that the allegations against us in this proceeding are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend the claim and contest the allegations made therein. If we are not successful in defending this claim, we could be exposed to considerable financial liabilities and, as a result, our financial condition could be materially adversely harmed. Risks Relating to International Operations Marketing our tools and solutions in international markets may cause increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We have international operations, which require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to continue to expand worldwide sales, we need to establish additional marketing and sales operations, hire additional personnel, and recruit additional resellers internationally. Based on the significant decline in revenues, we sought to reduce our expenses during 2009 and 2010 by implementing a workforce reduction, including significant reductions to our marketing and sales department. Risks inherent in our worldwide business activities generally include: · currency exchange fluctuations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · costs of localizing products for foreign countries; · difficulties in operations of management; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of local legislation. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 16 Inflation, devaluation, and fluctuation of various currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities, and assets. Since we operate in several countries, we are impacted by inflation, devaluation and fluctuation of various currencies. We enter into transactions with customers and suppliers in local currencies, whereas the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements and the functional currency of our business is the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in countries where we operate can adversely affect the reflection of these activities in our consolidated financial statements. For example, a large portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in NIS, whereas most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and Euros. During 2010, we witnessed a strengthening of the NIS against the U.S. dollar, which increased the dollar value of Israeli expenses. If the NIS continues t o strengthen against the U.S. dollar, the value of our Israeli expenses will continue to increase. In addition, fluctuations in the value of our non-dollar revenues, costs, and expenses measured in dollars could materially affect our results of operations, and our balance sheet reflects non-dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. Consequently, we are exposed to risks related to changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time-to-time, we enter into forward currency exchange contracts or other arrangements in order to hedge our foreign currency exposure. Such arrangements may not always be effective or sufficient to offset the fluctuations in currency exchange rates. For additional information relating to the impact of exchange rates between different relevant currencies, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Our Reporting Currency.” Fluctuations in foreign currency values affect the prices of our products and services, which in turn may affect our business and results of operations. Most of our worldwide sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Danish Kroner and Euros while our reporting currency is the dollar. A decrease in the value of the dollar relative to these foreign currencies would make our products more expensive and increase our operating costs and, therefore, could adversely affect our results and harm our competitive position in the markets in which we compete. We are subject to multiple taxing jurisdictions. If we fail to estimate accurately the amount of income tax due in any of these jurisdictions, our net income will be adversely affected. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to taxation by these jurisdictions at various tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We cannot assure you that the final tax outcome of these issues will not be different from management estimates, which are reflected in our income tax provisions. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such outcome occurs. 17 Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since 2000, there have been ongoing hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which have adversely affected the peace process and at times have negatively influenced Israel’s economy as well as its relationship with several other countries. The taking of control by Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes against Israelis, of the entire Gaza Strip in 2007 further strained relations between Israelis and the Palestinians. The current political situation between Israel and its neighbors may not improve. The impact on Israel of the recent political changes in Egypt and o ther Arab countries is still unknown. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, nonexempt male adult citizens of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty until the age of 40 or 45 depending on their function in the army, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. We cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Political relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. It may be difficult to serve process and enforce judgments against our directors and executive officers in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to: · effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors who are non-residents of the United States; · enforce court judgments obtained in the United States, including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors that are non-residents of the United States, in the United States or Israel; and · bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. 18 Risks Relating to Our Traded Securities The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may be extremely volatile and our investors may not be able to resell the shares at or above the price they paid, or at all. During the past years, the closing price of our ordinary shares experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares traded on the NASDAQ Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, during each of the last three years, are summarized in the table below: NASDAQ Global Market TASE In $ In NIS High Low High Low 2010 2.94 1.20 10.99 4.50 2009 3.85 1.62 14.24 7.07 2008 20.66 1.40 74.83 5.25 As of March 18, 2011, the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the New Israeli Shekel was NIS 3.554 to one dollar. During the period between January 2008 and March 2011, the market price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $20.66 to a low of $1.20. As of March 18, 2011, the market price of our ordinary shares was $1.72. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will return to previous levels. The market price of our ordinary shares may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · additional impairments of our intangible assets; · our continued operating losses and negative cash flows; · our continued non-compliance with our debt covenants; · our inability to secure funding; · any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly revenues and operating results; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · adverse consequences of litigation; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors; · the introduction or market acceptance of new products or service offerings by us or by our competitors; · changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; · changes in accounting principles; · sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and · the loss of any of our key personnel. 19 In addition, global and local economic, political and market conditions, and military conflicts and, in particular, those specifically related to the State of Israel, may affect the market price of our shares. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market which may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares trade on the NASDAQ Global Market and the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets takes place in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days, and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Future sales of our shares to be registered for resale in the public market could dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall. As of March 20, 2011, we had 24,054,774 ordinary shares outstanding and 2,562,496 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our employee equity compensation plans, including 1,933,341 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding employee options, warrants and unvested restricted stock units. We also have the following commitments to issue our ordinary shares: · 200,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to institutional investors in connection with the $3 million private placement, completed in March 2006; · 800,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued by us to institutional investors in connection with the $35 million private placement completed in November 2007; · 818,745 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued by us to institutional investors in connection with the private placement consummated in October 2009; and · 12,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to Liolios Group, Inc., in connection with certain services provided to us. We registered for resale the shares underlying the warrants issued to the institutional investors in March 2006, November 2007 and October 2009, pursuant to registration rights agreements entered into with such investors. For more information, see “Item 5.B - Liquidity and Capital Resources – Contractual Commitments and Guarantees.” The exercise of options by employees and office holders, vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees and office holders and the exercise of warrants by investors would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If a large number of our ordinary shares is sold in a short period, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decrease. 20 Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2010, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with our position. We would be a PFIC if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year (including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) is passive income, or (ii) the value of our assets averaged quarterly over the taxable year (including our pro rata share of the assets of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) that produce, or are held for the production of, passiv e income is at least 50%. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences, including being taxed at ordinary income tax rates and being subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. For additional information regarding our PFIC status, see the discussion under “Item 10.E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.”. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain listing requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to The NASDAQ Global Market in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. We follow home country practice with regard to distr ibution of annual reports to shareholders, meetings of independent directors in which only independent directors participate, approval of share compensation plans and changes in such plans and approval of share issuance or potential issuance which results in a change of control of the company. 21 