D. RISK FACTORS We are currently engaged in transporting crude oil and oil products. The following summarizes some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk factors relating to our Industry The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates which may adversely affect our earnings Currently, the Company has four vessels trading on medium or long-term charters, which expire in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. The Company's fifth vessel is trading in the spot market, the market for immediate purchase of marine petroleum products or chartering of a vessel, usually for single voyages. Historically, the tanker industry has been highly cyclical, with volatility in profitability and asset values resulting from changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity. If the tanker market is depressed in the future, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. The charter rates payable under time charters or in the spot market will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tanker vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: o changes in global crude oil production; o demand for oil and production of crude oil and refined petroleum products; o changes in oil production and refining capacity; o global and regional economic and political conditions; o the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; o environmental and other regulatory developments; and o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced, oil is refined and cargoes are used. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries; o the scrapping rate of older vessels; o port or canal congestion; o the number of vessels that are out of service; and o national or international regulations that may effectively cause reductions in the carrying capacity of vessels or early obsolescence of tonnage. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, the charter rates paid for our tankers could materially decline. The international tanker industry has experienced historically high charter rates and vessel values in the recent past and there can be no assurance that these historically high charter rates and vessel values will be sustained Charter rates in the tanker industry recently have been near historically high levels. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economy as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world's fleet. We believe that these charter rates are the result of continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in global vessel capacity. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividends. An increase in the supply of vessel capacity without an increase in demand for vessel capacity would likely cause charter rates and vessel values to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently there is significant new building activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases and the demand for vessel capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels as well as the value of our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates and vessel values would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements also can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo-capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in United States waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Risk Factors relating to our Business Some of our vessels operate on a spot charter basis and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings Beginning in 2004, some of our vessels have operated on a spot charter basis. Although spot chartering is common in the tanker industry, the spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates may fluctuate significantly based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. We cannot assure you that future spot charters will be available at rates sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably. In addition, bunkering, or fuel, charges that account for a substantial portion of the operating costs of our spot chartered vessels, and generally reflect prevailing oil prices, are subject to sharp fluctuations. The value of our vessels may fluctuate and adversely affect our liquidity and may result in breaches under our financial arrangements and sales of our vessels at a loss Tanker values have generally experienced high volatility. Investors can expect the fair market value of our VLCC oil tankers to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels, and other modes of transportation. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. While we have refinanced our previous secured debt during 2004, declining tanker values could affect our ability to raise cash by limiting our ability to refinance vessels in the future and thereby adversely impact our liquidity. If we determine at any time that a tanker's future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and the reduction of our shareholders' equity. Due to the cyclical nature of the tanker market, if for any reason we sell tankers at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the tanker's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Based on the closing price for our common shares on April 13, 2007, taking into account our total indebtedness of $106.4 million, and assuming no other factors, such as liquidity premiums, our cash position, or expectations of future performance, the implied value of each of our vessels was $116.4 million. The market value of a similar vessel may be significantly lower than the implied value of our vessels. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil from the Arabian Gulf may adversely affect our financial performance The demand for our very large crude carrier, or VLCC, oil tankers derives primarily from demand for Arabian Gulf crude oil, which, in turn, primarily depends on the economies of the world's industrial countries and competition from alternative energy sources. A wide range of economic, social and other factors can significantly affect the strength of the world's industrial economies and their demand for Arabian Gulf crude oil. One such factor is the price of worldwide crude oil. The world's oil markets have experienced high levels of volatility in the last 25 years. If oil prices were to rise dramatically, the economies of the world's industrial countries may experience a significant downturn. Among the factors which could lead to such a decrease are: o increased refining capacity in the Arabian Gulf area; o increased use of existing and future crude oil pipelines in the Arabian Gulf area; o a decision by Arabian Gulf oil-producing nations to increase their crude oil prices or to further decrease or limit their crude oil production; o armed conflict in the Arabian Gulf and political or other factors; and o the development and the relative costs of nuclear power, natural gas, coal and other alternative sources of energy. Our operating results from our tankers are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to pay dividends We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results with respect to our vessels trading in the spot market and with market related profit sharing arrangements. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fourth and first quarters of the calendar year in anticipation of increased oil consumption of oil and petroleum in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. We operate in the highly competitive international tanker market and we may not be able to effectively compete which would negatively affect our results of operations The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products and the other businesses in which we operate are extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. We compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies for charterers. Due in part to the fragmented tanker market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through acquisitions or consolidations and may be able to offer better prices and fleets, which could result in our achieving lower revenues from our VLCC oil tankers. We receive a portion of our charterhire revenue from a limited number of customers including Frontline Ltd. We will derive a significant portion of our revenues from two charters with Frontline Ltd, or Frontline. If we were to lose one or both of our charters with Frontline, or any of our other customers, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement charter for the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as under our current charters. The loss of any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our tankers Currently, four of our five tankers are contractually committed to time charters, with the remaining terms of these charters expiring on dates between 2009 and 2012. Although these time charters generally provide reliable revenues, they also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. Shipping is an inherently risky business and we may not have adequate insurance There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of attack. Future hostilities or other political instability, as shown by the attack on the Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We cannot assure investors that we will adequately insure against all risks and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future and the insurers may not pay particular claims. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us that could reduce our cash flows and place strains on our liquidity and capital resources. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to move to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to drydocking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would decrease our earnings. Incurrence of expenses or liabilities may reduce or eliminate distributions Our policy has been to pay out available cash, less reserves for contingencies, as distributions to stockholders, and we currently intend to continue that policy. However, we could incur other expenses or contingent liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution by us as dividends. Our loan agreement prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends if we are in default under such loan agreement. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. Arrests of our tankers by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our tankers could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our tankers for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation, resulting in a loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. This amount could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside of the United States. Changing economic, regulatory, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the military response by the United States has increased the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability, as shown by the attack on the Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, attacks on oil pipelines during and subsequent to the Iraq war in 2003 and attacks on expatriate workers in the Middle East could adversely affect the oil trade and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and our business, results of operations and financial condition As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and subsequent events, there has been considerable uncertainty in the world financial markets. The full effect of these events, as well as concerns about future terrorist attacks, on the financial markets is not yet known, but could include, among other things, increased volatility in the price of securities. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Future terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue, and costs. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have We are a Bermuda corporation. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, govern our affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company; not to the company's shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct course of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission except for an act or omission constituting fraud, dishonesty or illegality. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States Our executive officers, administrative activities and assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against us in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We may not be exempt from United States taxation on our United States source shipping income, which would reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50 percent of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a four percent United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this statutory tax exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a four percent United States federal income tax on United States sources shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have an adverse effect on our business. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, first effective in our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the total cost of our initial compliance and the future ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. 