D. RISK FACTORSThe following summarizes the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Dry bulkCharter hire rates for dry bulk vessels may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings.The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely, and charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influence charter rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable.Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include:•supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products;•changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products;•the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities;•the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products;•the globalization of production and manufacturing;•global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes;•developments in international trade;•changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea;•environmental and other regulatory developments;•currency exchange rates, and•weather.3Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include:•number of newbuilding deliveries;•port and canal congestion;•scrapping of older vessels;•vessel casualties; and•number of vessels that are out of service.Demand for our dry bulk vessels is dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo transported by sea. Given the large number of new dry bulk carriers currently on order with shipyards, the capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not resume in areas that have experienced a recession or continue in other areas. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The continued downturn in the dry bulk carrier charter market has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our earnings. The abrupt and dramatic downturn in the dry bulk charter market, from which we derive our revenues, has severely affected the dry bulk shipping industry. The Baltic Dry Index, an index published by The Baltic Exchange of shipping rates for 20 key dry bulk routes, fell 94% from a peak of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008 and remained volatile since, reaching a low of 772 and a high of 4,661 during 2009, a low of 1,700 and a high of 4,209 during 2010, and continued to decline in 2011 and 2012, reaching lows of 1,043 and 647, respectively. The high and low in 2013 were 4,329 and 1,209, respectively, and the high and low for 2014 as of February 28 were 3,733 and 1,513, respectively. This downturn in dry bulk charter rates and their volatility has had a number of adverse consequences for dry bulk shipping, including, among other things:•an absence of financing for vessels;•no active second-hand market for the sale of vessels;•extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market;•widespread loan covenant defaults in the dry bulk shipping industry; and•declaration of bankruptcy by some operators and ship owners as well as charterers.The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. There can be no assurance that the dry bulk charter market will recover and the market could continue to decline further. Dry bulk carrier values have also declined both as a result of a slowdown in the availability of global credit and the significant deterioration in charter rates. Charter rates and vessel values have been affected in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. There can be no assurance as to how long spot charter rates and vessel values will remain at their currently low levels. Charter rates may remain at low levels for some time which will adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. An oversupply of dry bulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of dry bulk carriers has been increasing as a result of the delivery of numerous newbuilding orders over the last few years. An oversupply of dry bulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates, as evidenced by historically low rates in December 2008. If such dry bulk carrier capacity increase continues, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to re-charter these vessels at all. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions.Tankers4 If the tanker industry, which historically has been cyclical and volatile, continues to be depressed or declines further in the future, our revenues, earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. We currently do not own or operate any tanker vessels but have owned such vessels in the past and our current strategy is to invest in drybulk and tanker tonnage. Historically, the tanker industry has been highly cyclical, with volatility in profitability, charter rates and asset values resulting from changes in the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. After reaching highs during the summer of 2008, charter rates for crude oil carriers fell dramatically during the global financial crisis and current rates continue to remain at relatively low levels compared to the rates achieved in the years preceding the global financial crisis. Fluctuations in charter rates and tanker values result from changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. These factors may adversely affect the rates payable and the amounts we receive in respect of our vessels. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market and we cannot guarantee that any renewal or replacement charters we enter into will be sufficient to allow us to operate our vessels profitably.The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include:•supply and demand for oil and oil products;•global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, national oil reserves policies, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts;•regional availability of refining capacity;•environmental and other legal and regulatory developments;•the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea;•changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which tanker cargoes are transported by sea;•increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets;•currency exchange rates;•weather and acts of God and natural disasters;•competition from alternative sources of energy and from other shipping companies and other modes of transport;•international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars; and•regulatory changes including regulations adopted by supranational authorities and/or industry bodies, such as safety and environmental regulations and requirements by major oil companies.The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include:•current and expected purchase orders for tankers;•the number of tanker newbuilding deliveries;•any potential delays in the delivery of newbuilding vessels and/or cancellations of newbuilding orders;•the scrapping rate of older tankers;•the successful implementation of the phase-out of single-hull tankers;•technological advances in tanker design and capacity;•tanker freight rates, which are affected by factors that may effect the rate of newbuilding, swapping and laying up of tankers;•port and canal congestion;•price of steel and vessel equipment;•conversion of tankers to other uses or conversion of other vessels to tankers;•the number of tankers that are out of service; and•changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of tankers.The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers have been volatile and are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable, including those discussed above. While market conditions have improved, continued volatility may cause reduced demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and increase supply of tankers to carry that oil, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions.5The international tanker industry has experienced volatile charter rates and vessel values and there can be no assurance that these charter rates and vessel values will return to their previous levels. Charter rates in the tanker industry are volatile. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world's fleet. We believe that the relatively high charter rates that were paid prior to 2008 were the result of economic growth in the world economy that exceeded growth in global vessel capacity. Since 2008, charter rates have been volatile and there can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A decline in vessel values and charter rates would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay cash distributions. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil may adversely affect our financial performance. The demand for oil tankers is derived primarily from demand for Arabian Gulf, West African, North Sea and Caribbean crude oil, which, in turn, primarily depends on the economies of the world's industrial countries and competition from alternative energy sources. A wide range of economic, social and other factors can significantly affect the strength of the world's industrial economies and their demand for crude oil from the mentioned geographical areas. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil from the above mentioned geographical areas would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Among the factors which could lead to such a decrease are:•increased crude oil production from other areas;•increased refining capacity in the Arabian Gulf or West Africa;•increased use of existing and future crude oil pipelines in the Arabian Gulf or West Africa;•a decision by Arabian Gulf or West African oil-producing nations to increase their crude oil prices or to further decrease or limit their crude oil production;•armed conflict in the Arabian Gulf and West Africa and political or other factors; and•the development and the relative costs of nuclear power, natural gas, coal and other alternative sources of energy.In addition, continuing volatile economic conditions affecting the United States and world economies may result in reduced consumption of oil products and a decreased demand for our vessels and lower charter rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay cash distributions.An over-supply of tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates, vessel values and profitability. In recent years, shipyards have produced a large number of new tankers. If the capacity of new vessels delivered exceeds the capacity of tankers being scrapped and converted to non-trading tankers, tanker capacity will increase. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline. A reduction in charter rates and the value of our vessels may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our ability to pay cash distributions.Shipping Generally Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: •a marine disaster,•terrorism,•environmental accidents,•cargo and property losses and damage, and•business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable dry bulk operator. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results.6 Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy continues to face a number of challenges, including the recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries and continuing economic weakness in the U.S. and the European Union. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. An extended period of deterioration in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. While market conditions have improved, continued economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. The economies of the United States, the European Union and other parts of the world continue to experience relatively slow growth and exhibit weak economic trends. Over the past five years, the credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity. While credit conditions are beginning to stabilize, global financial markets have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Since 2008, lending by financial institutions worldwide remain at low levels compared to the period proceeding 2008. The continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP for the year ended December 31, 2013, is estimated to remain around 7.7%, approximately the same growth rate as for the year ended December 31, 2012, remaining below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. The inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012 to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. As of the end of 2013, financial assistance disbursements under the ESM and the EFSF were being made to Greece, Portugal and Cyprus, with Ireland and Spain exiting the EFSF in December 2013. Despite these assistance measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. Potential adverse developments in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for dry bulk cargoes and for our services. Market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The current state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and otherwise negatively impact our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions and declining markets. There has been a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. As the shipping industry is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, it has been negatively affected by this decline. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 7In addition, at times, lower demand for dry bulk cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such dry bulk cargoes have led to decreased demand for dry bulk vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways:•we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or at all or operate our vessels profitably; and•the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired.The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2013 to its lowest level since 2007, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with dry bulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones by insurers or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions and may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in North Korea, the Middle East, including Egypt and Syria, and North Africa, including Libya, and the presence of United States and other armed forces in Afghanistan, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that our vessels are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay cash distributions. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our Ordinary Shares. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. In the past, certain of our vessels have made port calls to Iran, however, none of our vessels made any port calls to Iran during 2013. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. With effect from July 1, 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies, such as ours, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, on May 1, 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among 8other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years.On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the “Joint Plan of Action” (“JPOA”). Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and EU would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and E.U. indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014.Although we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being "in class" by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. We expect our vessels to be on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of its underwater parts. Compliance with the above requirements may result in significant expense. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, that can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations will be subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, European Union regulations, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 91969, generally referred to as CLC, the IMO International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, generally referred to as MARPOL, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, generally referred to as SOLAS, the IMO International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws and regulations, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require us to obtain certain permits or authorizations prior to commencing operations. Failure to obtain such permits or authorizations could materially impact our business results of operations, financial conditions and ability to pay cash distributions by delaying or limiting our ability to accept charterers. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. Additionally, we cannot predict the cost of compliance with any new regulations that may be promulgated as a result of the 2010 BP plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our available cash. The IMO adopted an International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments, or the BWM Convention, in February 2004. The BWM Convention's implementing regulations call for a phased introduction of mandatory ballast water exchange requirements, to be replaced in time with mandatory concentration limits. The BWM Convention will not become effective until 12 months after it has been adopted by 30 states, the combined merchant fleets of which represent not less than 35% of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant shipping. To date, there has not been sufficient adoption of this standard for it to take force. However, Panama may adopt this standard in the relatively near future, which would be sufficient for it to take force. If mid-ocean ballast exchange is made mandatory, or if ballast water treatment requirements or options are instituted, the cost of compliance could increase for ocean carriers, and the costs of ballast water treatment may be material. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability, without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could also result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. Federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages, including punitive damages, and could harm our reputation with current or potential charterers of our vessels. We will be required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although our technical manager will arrange for insurance to cover our vessels with respect to certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to comply with international safety regulations, we may be subject to increased liability, which may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. If we fail to comply with the ISM Code, we may be subject to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for our affected vessels and such failure may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, such as South Africa, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own.10 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency resulting in a loss of earnings. A government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize one or more of our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition one or more of our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions.Risks Related to Our Business A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters. When we enter into a time charter or bareboat charter, charter rates under that charter may be fixed for the term of the charter. One of our four Capesize vessels is currently on a fixed time charter expiring in August 2014 and two of our vessels are on index-linked time charter contracts expiring in November 2014 and January 2015. If the spot charter rates or short-term time charter rates in the dry bulk shipping industry become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. As described in "Item 4. Information on the Company-B. Business Overview", in 2012, we agreed to reduce the daily hire rate with respect to the Belgravia and the charterers of the Golden Zhejiang and Battersea defaulted on their charters and redelivered the vessels prior to the expiration of the charters. In December 2013, we received $756,000 from Sanko Steamship Co., Ltd., or Sanko, as a partial settlement with respect to unpaid charter hire and claims of the Battersea. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to re-charter our vessels at lower charter rates, which would affect our ability to comply with our loan covenants and operate our vessels profitably. If we are not able to comply with our loan covenants and our lenders choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We have entered into various contracts, including charterparties with our customers, loan agreements with our lenders and vessel management and other agreements with our General Manager and our Dry bulk Manager, which subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of the counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us or contracts entered into on our behalf will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping sector, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for our vessels and the supply and demand for commodities. We have entered into newbuilding contracts with Japan Marine United Corporation in Japan, or JMU, for two Capesize bulk carriers, expected to be delivered in 2015. We have entered into newbuilding contracts with Daehan Shipbuilding Co., Ltd, or Daehan, in the Republic of Korea, for two Capesize bulk carriers, which are also expected to be delivered in 2015. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under any such contract, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities. In addition, in depressed market conditions, charterers may have incentive to renegotiate their charters or default on their obligations under charters. Should a charterer in future fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure on the spot market or on charters may be at lower rates, depending on the then existing charter rate levels, compared to the rates currently being charged for our vessels. In addition, if the charterer of a vessel in our fleet that is used as collateral under one or more of our loan agreements defaults on its charter obligations to us, such default may constitute an event of default under our loan agreements, which may allow the bank to exercise remedies under our loan agreements. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions, if any, in the future, and compliance with covenants in our loan agreements. Further, if we had to find a replacement technical manager, we may need approval from our lenders to change the technical manager.We may not be able to implement our growth successfully. 11Our intention is to renew and grow our fleet through selective acquisitions of dry bulk or tanker tonnage. Our business plan will therefore depend upon our ability to identify and acquire suitable vessels to grow our fleet in the future and successfully employ our vessels. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which may have significantly greater financial resources than us, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our plans to establish and grow our business or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any vessels could impede our ability to establish our operations or implement our growth successfully. Our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: •fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings or cash flow enhancements; •incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired, particularly if any vessel we acquire proves not to be in good condition; •be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; •decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; •significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur debt to finance acquisitions; or •incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges.We will need to procure additional financing in order to complete the construction of our newbuilding vessels, which may be difficult to obtain on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to reduce expenditures for investments in new and existing projects, which could hinder our growth and prevent us from realizing potential revenues from prior investments which will have a negative impact on our cash flows and results of operations.As of the date of this annual report, we have purchase commitments of $185.5 million relating to our four Capesize newbuilding contracts with expected payments of $24.4 million and $161.1 million in 2014 and 2015, respectively. We expect to finance these payments with cash on hand, operating cash flow and bank debt that we intend to arrange. If such financing is not available when our capital commitments are due, we may be unable to meet such obligations and finance our other and future obligations. If for any reason we fail to take delivery of the newbuilding vessels described above, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these vessels, we may be required to forego deposits on construction, which amounted to an aggregate of $26.3 million (excluding capitalized interest and newbuilding supervision costs) as of the date of this annual report, and we may incur additional costs and liability to the shipyard under the construction contracts.Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased drydocking costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our current business strategy includes growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. Even following a physical inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase, we do not have the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions.12 The volatility in dry bulk charter rates, and vessel values, may affect our ability to comply with various covenants in our loan agreement. Our loan agreement for our borrowings, which are secured by liens on our vessels, contain various financial covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity. For example, there are financial covenants that require us to maintain (i) a minimum value adjusted equity that is based, in part, upon the market value of the vessels securing the loans, (ii) minimum levels of free cash, and (iii) a positive working capital. The market value of dry bulk vessels is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the dry bulk market, with vessel values deteriorating in times when dry bulk rates are falling or anticipated to fall and improving when charter rates are rising or anticipated to rise. Such conditions may result in our not being in compliance with these loan covenants. In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, or would be willing to refinance our indebtedness, we may have to sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets in order to comply with our loan covenants. Furthermore, if the value of our vessels deteriorates significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. If we are not in compliance with our covenants and are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In such an event, our auditors may give either an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph relating to the disclosure in the notes to our financial statements as to the substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern, or a qualified, adverse or disclaimer of opinion, which could lead to additional defaults under our loan agreements. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we might not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charterers and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at anticipated costs or at all may materially affect our results of operations and our ability to implement our business strategy.Fuel or bunker prices, may adversely affect our profits. For vessels on voyage charters, fuel oil, or bunkers, is a significant, if not the largest, expense. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability to the extent we have vessels on voyage charters. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. The operation of dry bulk carriers involves certain unique operational risks. The operation of dry bulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a dry bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, dry bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense and easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry bulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the dry bulk carrier. Dry bulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in dry bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a dry bulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the dry bulk carrier's bulkheads leading to the loss of the dry bulk carrier. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. 13Our results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition. We plan to operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, as one of our vessels currently trades in the spot market and our other vessels may trade in the spot market from time to time. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on but not limited to the following factors:•general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry;•competition from other shipping companies;•types and sizes of vessels;•the availability of other modes of transportations;•cost of newbuildings;•shipyard capacity;•governmental or other regulations;•age of vessels;•prevailing level of charter rates;•the need to upgrade secondhand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, and•technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise.During the period a vessel is subject to a charter, we will not be permitted to sell it to take advantage of increases in vessel values without the charterer's consent. If we sell a vessel at a time when ship prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. In addition, if we determine at any time that a vessel's future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, this would result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction of our shareholders' equity. It is possible that the market value of our vessels will continue to decline in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to comply with financial covenants contained in our loan agreements or any other financing arrangements we may enter into in the future. Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may be unable to successfully compete with other vessel operators for charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The operation of dry bulk vessels and transportation of dry bulk cargoes is extremely competitive. Through our operating subsidiaries we compete with other vessel owners, and, to a lesser extent, owners of other size vessels. The dry bulk market is highly fragmented. It is possible that we could not obtain suitable employment for our vessels, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our time charters may limit our ability to benefit from any improvement in charter rates, and at the same time, our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on the expiration of our charters. One of our four Capesize vessels is currently on a fixed time charter expiring in August 2014 and two of our vessels are on index-linked time charter contracts expiring in November 2014 and January 2015. Although our time charters generally provide reliable revenues, they also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the dry bulk industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. By the same token, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay cash distributions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our current credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our 14assets. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facilities may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of cash distributions and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facilities, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Our results of operations would be materially adversely affected if one or more of our customers failed to compensate us for our services, terminated our contracts with or without cause, failed to renew its existing contracts or refused to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable daily rates. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges. The carrying values of our vessels are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the vessel may no longer be recoverable. We assess recoverability of the carrying value by estimating the future net cash flows expected to result from the vessel, including eventual disposal. If the future net undiscounted cash flows and the estimated fair market value of the vessel are less than the carrying value an impairment loss is recorded equal to the difference between the vessel's carrying value and fair value. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results or the trading price of our common shares. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded an impairment loss of $5.3 million related to the VLCC Mayfair. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded an impairment loss of $41.6 million related to the VLCCs Titan Venus (ex Camden) ($14.7 million), the Kensington ($13.5 million) and the Mayfair ($13.4 million). Operational risks and damage to our vessels could adversely impact our performance. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather and other acts of God, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, the payment of ransoms, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships and market disruptions, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover at all or in full. The loss of revenues while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located relative to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs or loss which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our business. International shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Under the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. These security procedures can result in delays in the loading, offloading or trans-shipment and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Future changes to the existing security procedures may be implemented that could affect the tanker sector. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped, resulting in a decreased demand for vessels and have a negative effect on our business, revenues and customer relations. 15Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. One of our directors is affiliated with Golden Ocean Group Limited, which could result in conflicts of interest that may not be resolved in our favor. Mr. Herman Billung, a member of our board of directors, or our Board, also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Golden Ocean Management AS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Golden Ocean Group Limited, or Golden Ocean. Another subsidiary of Golden Ocean provides commercial management services for our dry bulk carriers, and we have also purchased two vessels from Golden Ocean. To the extent that we do business with Golden Ocean or Golden Ocean competes with us for business opportunities, prospects or financial resources, or participates in ventures in which we may participate, Mr. Billung may face actual or apparent conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could have different implications for us and Golden Ocean. These decisions may relate to corporate opportunities, corporate strategies, potential acquisitions of businesses, newbuilding acquisitions, inter-company agreements, the issuance or disposition of securities, the election of new or additional directors and other matters. Such potential conflicts may delay or limit the opportunities available to us, and it is possible that conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Incurrence of expenses or liabilities may reduce or eliminate distributions. Our policy is to make distributions to shareholders based on earnings and cash flow. The amount and timing of cash distributions will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash position, Bermuda law affecting the payment of distributions and other factors. However, we could incur other expenses or contingent liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution by us as cash distributions. In addition, the declaration and payment of cash distributions is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board. We cannot assure you that we will pay cash distributions. Our financing obligations could affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness or engage in certain transactions. Our financing agreements impose operational and financing restrictions on us and/or on our subsidiaries, which may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and/or our subsidiaries' ability to, without the consent of our lenders, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell capital interests of subsidiaries, make certain investments, engage in mergers and acquisitions, purchase and sell vessels, enter into certain charters or, if an event of default has occurred, pay cash distributions. In addition, our lenders may accelerate the maturity of indebtedness under our financing agreements and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including our failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in our financing agreements, not rectified within the permitted time. For instance, declining vessel values could lead to a breach of covenants under our financing agreements. If we are unable to prepay, pledge additional collateral or obtain waivers from our lenders, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels. In addition, if the lenders are entitled to accelerate the debt outstanding under one facility in default, it could result in a default on our other facilities. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. The age of our dry bulk carrier fleet is approximately four years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels, may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 16If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement at the end of a vessel's useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions would be adversely affected. Any funds set aside for vessel replacement will not be available for cash distributions. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if our vessels are damaged or lost. We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe companies in the shipping industry commonly insure. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid, even if we have previously recorded a receivable or revenue in respect of such claim. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our vessels in the future or renew our existing policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have in the past led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies may be subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, if the value of our claim records, the claim records of our fleet managers, and/or the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability (including pollution-related liability) significantly exceed projected claims. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have. We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, govern our affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company; not to the company's shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct cause of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission except for an act or omission constituting fraud, dishonesty or illegality. United States tax authorities could treat the Company as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company", or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income". For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes cash distributions, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment 17property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income". United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering and voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from these activities does not constitute "passive income", and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce, or are held for the production of, "passive income". Although there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority that characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation-United States Federal Income Tax Considerations"), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common shares. Please see the section entitled "Taxation-United States Federal Income Tax Considerations-Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences". below for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common shares for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, there can be no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject during those years to an effective 2% United States federal income tax on gross shipping income derived during such a year that is attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our share price may be highly volatile and future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "VLCCF" in February 1997. We cannot assure you that an active and liquid public market for our common stock will continue. The market price of our common stock has historically fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Since 2008, the 18stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. If the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock and impact a potential sale price if holders of our common stock decide to sell their shares. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States. Our executive offices, administrative activities and assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against us in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States.