Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic conditions, particularly in the United States, will reduce or defer the demand for project-based enterprise applications software and solutions. Demand for project-based enterprise applications software and solutions is dependent on the operations, budgets and overall financial condition of our customers. Economic downturns or inflationary pressures in the United States could have an adverse effect on the business and financial condition of our customers and could cause them to purchase fewer of our products or solutions or to defer purchases of our products or solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, more than 95% of our total revenue was generated in the United States. As a result, our business activity is particularly dependent upon economic conditions in the United States. If adverse economic conditions in the United States continue or worsen, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to manage our anticipated future growth successfully, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Managing our growth is one of our greatest challenges. Between 2005 and 2007, our total revenue increased from $153.0 million to $278.2 million, or approximately 82%, and our license revenue increased from $45.9 million to $87.1 million, or approximately 90%. During this same period, our total worldwide headcount has increased from 876 employees at the end of 2005 to 1,255 employees worldwide at December 31, 2007. Past and future growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, financial and accounting systems, information technology systems and other components of our infrastructure. To meet our growth and related demands, we continue to invest in enhanced or new systems, including enhancements to our accounting, billing and information technology systems. We may also need to hire additional personnel, particularly in our sales, marketing, professional services, finance, administrative, legal and information technology groups. If we do not correctly anticipate our needs as we grow, if we fail to successfully implement our enhanced or new systems and other infrastructure improvements effectively and timely or if we encounter delays or unexpected costs in hiring, integrating, training and guiding our new employees, we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenues and profitability and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. If our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate in the future, or if we fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. Historically, our operating results have varied from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Consequently, we believe that investors should not view our historical revenue and other operating results as accurate indicators of our future performance. A number of factors contribute to the variability in our revenue and other operating results, including the following: • the number and timing of major customer contract wins, which tend to be unpredictable and which may disproportionately impact our license revenue and operating results; • the higher concentration of our license sales in the last month of each quarter resulting in diminished predictability of our quarterly results; • the higher concentration of our license sales in the last quarter of each fiscal year, resulting in diminished predictability of our annual results; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchases, varying budget cycles and amounts available to fund purchases resulting in varying demand for our products and services; • delays or deferrals by customers in the implementation of our products; • the level of product and price competition; 12 Table of Contents • the length of our sales cycles; • the timing of recognition of deferred revenue; • any significant change in the number of customers renewing or terminating maintenance agreements with us; • our ability to develop and market new software enhancements and products; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • the relative mix of products and services we sell; • developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or those of our competitors; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and • global and domestic economic conditions. As a result of these and other factors, our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may not meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If we are not able to remedy our weaknesses and other deficiencies in our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, and our stock price could decline. Through our ongoing assessment of our system of internal controls over financial reporting, the following represent material weaknesses we have identified and are in the process of remediating: Financial Close and Reporting • Lack of formal financial policies and procedures. • Inadequate account reconciliation and analysis process. • Lack of spreadsheet controls, such as the ability to restrict access and monitor changes to, and verify the accuracy of, spreadsheets. Revenue • Inadequate controls around accuracy of billing and revenue recognition. • Inadequate documentation and review of software revenue recognition decisions. Information Technology • Inadequate systems access and change management controls. The material weaknesses we have identified and our remediation plans are described in more detail in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” While we have taken certain remedial actions and are taking further remedial actions, additional controls must be implemented and each newly designed control must be tested successfully before we can be reasonably assured that our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are effective. Remediating our identified control deficiencies depends on several factors, including testing new accounting applications or other related software and applications. Our implementation of changes to our internal controls in connection with our remediation plans are expected to require substantial expenditures, could take a significant period of time to complete and could distract our officers and employees from the operation of our business. 13 Table of Contents Through December 31, 2007, we have incurred approximately $3.8 million for services provided by a third party consulting firm to help us develop and execute our plan to improve the effectiveness of our internal controls. We estimate that we will have remediated all of the identified material weaknesses that we have identified to date by the end of the second calendar quarter of 2008, though operational testing of the remediated controls will continue after the second calendar quarter of 2008. However, we cannot be certain whether we will complete the necessary remedial actions in the estimated timeframe or predict whether these actions will prevent us from having new or repeated material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls or ineffective disclosure controls and procedures. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting if we have not remedied such weaknesses, and our stock price could decline. Material weaknesses in our internal controls may impede our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements, result in inaccurate financial reporting or restatements of our financial statements, subject our stock to delisting and materially harm our business reputation and stock price. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly periodic reports containing our financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission within prescribed time periods. As part of The NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements, we are also required to provide our periodic reports, or make them available, to our stockholders within prescribed time periods. In light of our identified material weaknesses and other deficiencies in our internal controls, and notwithstanding our ongoing efforts to remediate our control weaknesses, we may not be able to produce reliable financial statements or to file these financial statements as part of a periodic report in a timely manner with the Securities and Exchange Commission and to comply with The NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements. We have had to restate our financial statements in the past, in part due to inadequate internal controls, and we could face potential restatements in the future. The impact of our prior restatement is described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” If we are required to restate our financial statements in the future, any specific adjustment may be adverse and may cause our operating results and financial condition, as restated, on an overall basis to be materially and adversely impacted. As a result, we or members of our management could be the subject of adverse publicity, investigations and sanctions by such regulatory authorities as the Securities and Exchange Commission and be subject to stockholder lawsuits. Any of the above consequences could cause our stock price to decline materially and could impose significant unanticipated costs on us. As of each year end beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008, we will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and to provide in our Form 10-K our assessment of our internal controls to our stockholders. At the same time, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to evaluate and assess our internal control over financial reporting. To the extent we have material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls, we may determine that we have ineffective internal controls as of December 31, 2008, or any subsequent year end, and we may receive an adverse assessment of our internal controls from our auditors. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls may delay the conclusion of an annual audit or a review of our quarterly financial results. If we are not able to issue our financial statements in a timely manner, or if we are not able to obtain the required audit or review of our financial statements by our registered independent public accounting firm in a timely manner, we will not be able to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Select Market. If these events occur, our common stock listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market could be suspended or terminated, and our stock price could materially suffer. Absent a waiver, we also would be in default under our credit agreement, and our lenders could accelerate any obligation we have to them. In addition, we, or members of our management, could be subject to investigation and sanction by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory authorities and to stockholder lawsuits, which could impose significant additional costs on us, divert management attention and materially harm our business reputation and stock price. 14 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in entering new market segments or further penetrating our existing market segments, our revenue or revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Our future results depend, in part, on our ability to successfully penetrate new markets, as well as to expand further into our existing markets. In order to grow our business, we expect to expand to other project-focused markets in which we have less experience, such as management consulting, information technology services, discrete project manufacturing and grant-based not-for-profits. Expanding into new markets requires both considerable investment of technical, financial and sales resources and coordinated management of the process. We also will continue to focus on maintaining and increasing our market share in our existing markets. Although we strive to add functionality to our products to address the specific needs of both existing customers and new customers, we may be unsuccessful in developing appropriate products, devoting sufficient resources to add all desirable functionality, or pursuing effective strategies for product development and marketing. Our current or future products may not appeal to potential customers in new or existing markets. If we are unable to execute upon this element of our business strategy and expand into new markets or maintain and increase our market share in our existing markets, our revenue or revenue growth may be materially adversely affected. If our existing customers do not buy additional software and services from us, our revenue and revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Our business model depends, in part, on the success of our efforts to maintain and increase sales to our existing customers. Our installed customer base has typically generated additional new license, professional service and maintenance revenue. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining or increasing sales to our existing customers for any number of reasons, including our inability to deploy new applications and features for our existing products or to introduce new products and services that are responsive to the business needs of our customers. If we fail to generate additional business from our customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease in material amounts. If we are not successful in expanding our international business, our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. While we currently have customers in approximately 60 countries, we generated less than 5% of our total license revenue in 2006 and 2007 from international markets. Our ability to expand internationally will require us to deliver product functionality and foreign language translations that are responsive to the needs of the international customers that we target. Additionally, we conduct our international business through our direct sales force and also through independent reseller partners. If we are unable to hire a qualified direct sales force, identify beneficial strategic alliance partners, or negotiate favorable alliance terms, our international growth may be hampered. Our failure to expand successfully in international markets could materially adversely affect our revenue growth. Expansion internationally will require significant attention from our management and will require us to add additional management and other resources in these markets. If we do not successfully address the potential risks associated with our current or future international operations, we could experience increased costs or our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We currently have customers in approximately 60 countries, including in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, and we intend to expand our international markets. Currently, we have facilities in Canada, the Philippines, Australia and the United Kingdom. 15 Table of Contents Doing business internationally involves additional potential risks and challenges, including: • our inexperience in international markets and managing international operations, including a global workforce; • our ability to conform our products to local business practices or standards, including developing multi-lingual compatible software; • competition from local and international software vendors; • disruptions in international communications resulting from damage to, or disruptions of, telecommunications links, gateways, cables or other systems; • potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • unstable political and economic conditions, including in those countries in which development operations occur; • potentially higher operating costs due to local laws, regulations and market conditions; • foreign currency controls and fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in a number of countries where we may operate; • compliance with multiple, potentially conflicting and frequently changing governmental laws and regulations; • seasonality in business activity specific to various markets that is different than our recent historical trends; • potentially longer sales cycles; • potential restrictions on repatriation of earnings, including changes in the tax treatment of our international operations; and • potential restrictions on the export of technologies such as data security and encryption. These risks could increase our costs or adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to integration and other risks from acquisition activities, which could materially impair our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, product lines or services organizations. We may not realize the anticipated strategic or financial benefits of past or potential future acquisitions due to a variety of factors, including the following: • difficulty integrating acquired products and technology into our software applications and business strategy; • inability to achieve the desired or anticipated revenue or cost synergies and benefits; • difficulty in coordinating and integrating our sales, marketing, services, support and development activities, successfully cross selling products and managing the combined organizations; • retaining strategic alliance partners on attractive terms; • difficulty retaining, integrating and training key employees of the acquired business; • difficulty and cost of establishing and integrating controls, procedures and policies; • difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition, such as development, distribution and customer support; 16 Table of Contents • the possibility that customers of the acquired business may dislike our new ownership, may transition to different technologies offered by our competitors, or may attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance agreements; • disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management from day-to-day operations due to integration issues; • the possibility that goodwill or other intangible assets may become impaired and will need to be written off in the future; • potential failure of the due diligence process to identify significant issues, including product quality, architecture and development issues or legal and financial contingencies (including ongoing maintenance or service contract concerns); and • claims by third parties relating to intellectual property. If our customers fail to renew or otherwise terminate their maintenance services agreements for our products, or if they are successful in renegotiating their agreements with us on terms that are unfavorable to us, our maintenance services revenues and our operating results could be materially harmed. Our customers contract with us for ongoing product maintenance and support services. Historically, maintenance services revenues have represented a significant portion of our total revenue, constituting approximately 37% and 36% of our total revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our maintenance and support services are generally billed quarterly and are generally paid in advance. A customer may cancel its maintenance services agreement on 30 days’ notice prior to the beginning of the next scheduled period. At the end of a contract term, or at the time a customer has quarterly cancellation rights, a customer could seek a modification of its maintenance services agreement terms, including modifications that could result in lower maintenance fees or our providing additional services without associated fee increases. A customer may also elect to terminate its maintenance services agreement and rely on its own in-house technical staff or other third party resources or may replace our software with a competitor’s product. If our maintenance services business declines due to contract terminations, or if we are forced to offer pricing or other maintenance terms that are unfavorable to us, our maintenance services revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we are required to defer recognition of license revenue for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in any particular quarter. We may be required to defer recognition of license revenue from a license agreement with a customer if, for example: • the software transactions include both currently deliverable software products and software products that are under development or require other undeliverable elements; • a particular customer requires services that include significant modifications, customizations or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance; • the software transactions involve customer acceptance criteria; • there are identified product-related issues, such as known defects; • the software transactions involve payment terms that are longer than our standard payment terms or fees that depend upon future contingencies; or • under the applicable accounting requirements, we are unable to separate recognition of license revenue from maintenance or other services-related revenue, thereby requiring us to defer license revenue recognition until the services are provided. 17 Table of Contents Deferral of license revenue may result in significant timing differences between the completion of a sale and the actual recognition of the revenue related to that sale. However, we generally recognize commission and other sales-related expenses associated with sales at the time they are incurred. As a result, if we are required to defer a significant amount of revenue, our operating results in any quarter could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to forecast the timing of our revenues or expenses accurately, our operating results could be materially lower than anticipated. We use a variety of factors in our forecasting and planning processes, including historical trends, recent customer history, expectations of customer buying decisions, customer implementation schedules and plans, analyses by our sales and service teams, maintenance renewal rates, our assessment of economic or market conditions and many other factors. While these analyses may provide us with some guidance in business planning and expense management, these estimates are inherently imprecise and may not accurately predict the timing of our revenues or expenses. A variation in any or all of these factors could cause us to inaccurately forecast our revenues or expenses and could result in expenditures without corresponding revenue. As a result, our revenues and our operating results could be materially lower than anticipated. To maintain our competitive position, we may be forced to reduce prices or limit price increases, which could result in materially reduced revenue, margins or net income. We face significant competition across all of our product lines from a variety of sources, including larger multi-national software companies, smaller start-up organizations, point solution application providers, specialized consulting organizations, systems integrators and internal information technology departments of existing or potential customers. Several competitors, such as Oracle, SAP AG and Microsoft, may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors have refocused their marketing and sales efforts to the middle market in which we actively market our products. These competitors may implement increasingly aggressive marketing programs, product development plans and sales programs targeted toward our specific industry markets. In addition, some of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and prospective customers and with major accounting and consulting firms that may prefer to recommend those competitors over us. Our competitors may also seek to influence some customers’ purchase decisions by offering more comprehensive horizontal product portfolios, superior global presence and more sophisticated multi-national product capabilities. To maintain our competitive position, we may be forced to reduce prices or limit price increases, which could materially reduce our revenue, margins or net income. If our existing and potential customers seek to acquire software on a subscription basis, and if to meet this customer preference, we need to offer our products on a subscription fee basis in the future, our license revenue and cash flow could be materially reduced. Our license revenues are generally derived from the sale of perpetual licenses for software products. Each license fee generally is paid on a one-time basis either on a per-seat basis or as an enterprise license, and related revenue is generally recognized at the time the license is executed. Nearly all of our license fee revenue for 2007 and 2006 was generated from the sale of perpetual licenses. Under our business model, our license fees are typically invoiced and recognized as revenue immediately upon delivery, even though the customer’s use of the software product occurs over time. If in the future our customers seek to acquire software on a subscription basis, we may need to offer our products on a subscription basis. We may not successfully price, market or otherwise execute a subscription-based model. If we operate our software business in whole or in part on a subscription fee basis, we could experience materially reduced license revenues and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents We may not receive adequate return from our investments in product development, which could result in lower revenues or margins than expected. We expect to continue to commit significant resources to maintain and improve our existing products and to develop new products. For example, our product development expenses were approximately $37.3 million, or 16% of revenue, in 2006, and approximately $42.9 million, or 15% of revenue, in 2007. Our current and future product development efforts may not deliver product features or new products that achieve market acceptance and, as a result, we may not achieve the revenues we anticipate. We may also be required to price our product enhancements, product features or new products at levels below those anticipated during the product development stage, which could result in lower revenues and margins for that product than we originally anticipated. We also may experience unforeseen or unavoidable delays in delivering product enhancements, product features or new products due to factors within or outside of our control. If we do not generate adequate returns from our investment in product development, our revenues or margins could be materially reduced. If we fail to adapt to changing technological and market trends or changing customer requirements, our market share could decline and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. The business application software market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product lifecycles. The development of new technologically advanced software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Our future success will largely depend upon our ability to develop and introduce timely new products and product features in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position. The introduction of enhanced or new products requires us to manage the transition from, or integration with, older products in order to minimize disruption in sales of existing products and to manage the overall process in a cost-effective manner. If we do not successfully anticipate changing technological and market trends or changing customer requirements and we fail to enhance or develop products timely, effectively and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to retain or increase market share may be harmed, and our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If our existing or prospective customers prefer an application software architecture other than the standards-based technology and platforms upon which we build or support our products, or if we fail to develop our new product enhancements or products to be compatible with the application software architecture preferred by existing and prospective customers, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our license revenue could be materially reduced. Many of our customers operate their information technology infrastructure on standards-based application software platforms such as J2EE and .NET. A significant portion of our product development is devoted to enhancing our products that deploy these and other standards-based application software platforms. Although the standards and technologies that we have chosen for our products (including J2EE and .NET) have been adopted by our customers, there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status that are not compatible with our products and that will require us to spend material development resources to develop products or product enhancements that are deployable on these platforms. If we are unsuccessful in developing these products or product enhancements, we may lose existing customers or be unable to attract prospective customers. In addition, our customers may choose competing products other than our offerings based upon their preference for a new or different standards-based application software than the software or platforms on which our products operate or are supported. Any of these adverse developments could injure our competitive position and could cause our license revenue to be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our software products are built upon and depend upon operating platforms and software developed and supplied by third parties. As a result, changes in the availability, features and price of, or support for, any of these third party platforms or software could materially increase our costs, divert resources and materially adversely affect our competitive position and license revenue. Our software products are built upon and depend upon operating platforms and software developed by third party providers. We license from several software providers technologies that are incorporated into our products. Our software may also be integrated with third party vendor products for the purpose of providing or enhancing necessary functionality. If any of these operating platforms or software products ceases to be supported by its third party provider, or if we lose any technology license for software that is incorporated into our products, we may need to devote increased management and financial resources to migrate our software products to an alternative operating platform, identify and license equivalent technology or integrate our software products with an alternative third party vendor product. In addition, if a provider enhances its product in a manner that prevents us from timely adapting our products to the enhancement, we may lose our competitive advantage, and our existing customers may migrate to a competitor’s product. Third party providers may also not remain in business, cooperate with us to support our software products or make their product available to us on commercially reasonable terms or provide an effective substitute product to us and our customers. Any of these adverse developments could materially increase our costs and materially adversely affect our competitive position and license revenue. If we lose access to, or fail to obtain, third party software development tools on which our product development efforts depend, we may be unable to develop additional applications and functionality, and our ability to maintain our existing applications may be diminished, which may cause us to incur materially increased costs, reduced margins or lower revenue. We license software development tools from third parties and use those tools in the development of our products. Consequently, we depend upon third parties’ abilities to deliver quality products, correct errors, support their current products, develop new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If any of these third party development tools become unavailable, if we are unable to maintain or renegotiate our licenses with third parties to use the required development tools, or if third party developers fail to adequately support or enhance the tools, we may be forced to establish relationships with alternative third party providers and to rewrite our products using different development tools. We may not be able to obtain other development tools with comparable functionality from other third parties on reasonable terms or in a timely fashion. In addition, we may not be able to complete the development of our products using different development tools, or we may encounter substantial delays in doing so. If we do not adequately replace these software development tools in a timely manner, we may incur additional costs, which may materially reduce our margins or revenue. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected defects or similar problems, and if we fail to develop an enhancement to resolve any defect or other software problem, we could be subject to product liability, performance or warranty claims and incur material costs, which could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of customer confidence and adversely impact our sales, revenue and operating results. Our software applications are complex and, as a result, defects or other software problems may be found during development, product testing, implementation or deployment. In the past, we have encountered defects in our products as they are introduced or enhanced. If our software contains defects or other software problems: • we may not be paid; • a customer may bring a warranty claim against us; 20 Table of Contents • a customer may bring a claim for their losses caused by our product failure; • we may face a delay or loss in the market acceptance of our products; • we may incur unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy the problem; • our reputation and competitive position may be damaged; and • significant customer relations problems may result. Our customers use our software together with software and hardware applications and products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to determine the cause of the problem, and our software, even when not the ultimate cause of the problem, may be misidentified as the source of the problem. The existence of defects or other software problems, even when our software is not the source of the problem, might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts for a lengthy time period, require extensive consulting resources, harm our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. If our products fail to perform properly, we may face liability claims notwithstanding that our standard customer agreements contain limitations of liability provisions. A material claim or lawsuit against us could result in significant legal expense, harm our reputation, damage our customer relations, divert management’s attention from our business and expose us to the payment of material damages or settlement amounts. In addition, interruption in the functionality of our products or other defects could cause us to lose new sales and materially adversely affect our license and maintenance services revenues and our operating results. A breach in the security of our software could harm our reputation and subject us to material claims and additional costs, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Fundamental to the use of enterprise application software, including our software, is the ability to securely process, collect, analyze, store and transmit information. Third parties may attempt to breach the security of our applications, third party applications upon which our products are based or those of our customers and their databases. In addition, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could lead to interruptions and delays in customer processing or a loss of a customer’s data. We may be responsible, and liable, to our customers for certain breaches in the security of our software products. Any security breaches for which we are, or are perceived to be, responsible, in whole or in part, could subject us to claims, which could harm our reputation and result in significant costs. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could lead to interruptions and delays in customer processing or a loss of data. We might be required to expend significant financial and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach. If we are not able to retain and hire qualified employees, our business could suffer, and we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy and future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain and attract highly skilled managerial, professional service, sales, development, marketing, accounting, administrative and infrastructure-related personnel. The market for these highly skilled employees is competitive in the geographies in which we operate. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain qualified employees or recruit qualified personnel in a timely fashion, or if we are required to incur unexpected increases in compensation costs to retain key employees or meet our hiring goals. If we are not able to retain and attract the personnel we require, 21 Table of Contents it could be more difficult for us to sell and develop our products and services and execute our business strategy, which could lead to a material shortfall in our anticipated results. Furthermore, if we fail to manage these costs effectively, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The loss of key members of our senior management team could disrupt the management of our business and materially impair the success of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team. We rely on our executive officers and other key managers for the successful performance of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key managers could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we have employment arrangements with several members of our senior management team, none of these arrangements prevents any of our employees from leaving us. The loss of any member of our senior management team could materially impair our ability to perform successfully, including achieving satisfactory operating results and maintaining our growth. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our license revenue could be materially adversely affected. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in significant degree on our intellectual property, particularly our proprietary software. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our rights in our software and other intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, design around or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Our competitors may independently develop software that is substantially equivalent or superior to our software. Furthermore, we have no patents, and existing copyright law affords only limited protection for our software and may not protect such software in the event competitors independently develop products similar to ours. We take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our proprietary source code. Despite these measures, unauthorized disclosure of some of or all of our source code could occur. Such unauthorized disclosure could potentially cause our source code to lose intellectual property protection and make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying their functionality, structure or operation. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, we may not be able to protect our proprietary software against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and our license revenue. Any litigation to protect our proprietary rights could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and could be unsuccessful, which could result in the loss of material intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Potential future claims that we infringe upon third parties’ intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming to defend or settle or result in the loss of significant products, any of which could materially adversely impact our revenue and operating results. Third parties could claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims, whether or not they have merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert our management’s attention and resources from day-to-day operations or cause significant delays in our delivery or implementation of our products. 22 Table of Contents We could also be required to cease to develop, use or market infringing or allegedly infringing products, to develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to use infringing or allegedly infringing technology. We may not be able to develop alternative software or to obtain such licenses or, if a license is obtainable, we cannot be certain that the terms of such license would be commercially acceptable. If a claim of infringement were threatened or brought against us, and if we were unable to license the infringing or allegedly infringing product or develop or license substitute software, or were required to license such software at a high royalty, our revenue and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we agree, from time to time, to indemnify our customers against certain claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending our customers against such claims. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and could result in materially increased expenses, reduced revenues and profitability and impaired customer relationships. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications and internal technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of any or all of these systems in the event of a major telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, fire, earthquake, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data, could prevent us from fulfilling our customer contracts, change customer purchasing intentions or expectations, create delays or postponements of scheduled implementations or other services engagements or otherwise disrupt our relationships with current or potential customers. The disaster recovery plans and backup systems that we have in place may not be effective in addressing a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems. As a result of any of these events, we may not be able to conduct normal business operations and may be required to incur significant expenses in order to resume normal business operations. As a result, our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our revenues are partially dependent upon federal government contractors and their need for compliance with Federal Government contract accounting standards. Our failure to anticipate or adapt timely to changes in those standards could cause us to lose our government contractor customers and materially adversely affect our revenue generated from these customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from federal government contractors. In 2007 and 2006, approximately half of our license revenue was generated from federal government contractor customers. Our government contractor customers utilize our Deltek Costpoint, Deltek GCS Premier or our enterprise project management applications to manage their contracts with the federal government in a manner that accounts for expenditures in accordance with the federal government contracting accounting standards. For example, a key function of our Costpoint application is to enable government contractors to enter, review and organize accounting data in a manner that is compliant with applicable laws and regulations and to easily demonstrate compliance with those laws and regulations. If the Federal Government alters these compliance standards, or if there were any significant problem with the functionality of our software from a compliance perspective, we may be required to modify or enhance our software products to satisfy any new or altered compliance standards. Our inability to effectively and efficiently modify our applications to resolve any compliance issue could result in the loss of our government contract customers and materially adversely impact our revenue from these customers. 23 Table of Contents Significant reductions in the Federal Government’s budget or changes in the spending priorities for that budget could materially reduce government contractors’ demand for our products and services. The Federal Government’s budget is subject to annual renewal and may be increased or decreased, whether on an overall basis or on a basis that could disproportionately injure our customers. Any significant downsizing, consolidation or insolvency of our Federal Government contractor customers resulting from changes in procurement policies, budget reductions, loss of government contracts, delays in contract awards or other similar procurement obstacles could materially adversely impact our customers’ demand for our software products and related services and maintenance. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. As of March 15, 2008, we had approximately $193.3 million of outstanding debt under our credit agreement and term loan at interest rates which are subject to market fluctuation. This indebtedness could have important consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other cash requirements; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest costs if the underlying interest rates rise; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations or to borrow additional funds, will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer demand, the success of product and marketing innovation, pressure from competitors and the state of the economy. If we do not have enough cash to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or reduce our spending. At any given time, we may not be able to refinance our debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions contained in our credit agreement, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement to be due and payable, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our credit agreement governing our term loan and revolving credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, pay dividends, create liens on assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, change the business conducted by us and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement also requires us to comply with certain financial ratios related to fixed charge coverage, interest coverage and leverage ratios. We may not be able to comply with these financial covenants, and the restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by economic, financial, industry or other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we did not comply with the covenant requiring us to submit audited annual financial statements by March 31, 2007, although we were able to provide the audited financial statements within the 30-day grace period provided under the credit agreement. 24 Table of Contents The breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in our credit agreement, unless cured within the applicable grace period, could result in a default under the credit agreement that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result, any default could have serious consequences to our financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price could be volatile and could decline for a variety of reasons, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. The stock markets generally have experienced extreme volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are traded publicly. Broad market fluctuations and general economic conditions may materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Significant price fluctuations in our common stock also could result from a variety of other factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition; • our competitors’ announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions of the project-focused software industry; and • any other factor described in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. If securities analysts issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, or if they do not publish research reports about our company and our industry in the future, the price of our common stock could decline or be volatile. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about our company and our industry. We do not control these analysts. One or more analysts could downgrade our stock or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry. In addition, we may be unable or slow to attract or retain research coverage, and the analysts who publish information about our common stock have had relatively little recent experience with us, which could affect their ability to accurately forecast our results or make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. Alternatively, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price for our stock could decline or be volatile. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We have 43,079,835 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 26, 2007. If New Mountain Partners II, L.P., New Mountain Affiliated Investors II, L.P., and Allegheny New Mountain Partners, L.P. (collectively, the “New Mountain Funds”), members of our executive team and other employees who are party to a stockholders agreement that allows them to sell proportionately with our controlling stockholder, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if the market perceives that stockholders may sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Stockholders holding the majority of our common stock have entered into lock-up agreements that prevent the sale of shares of our common stock for up to 180 days following the completion of our initial public offering. Following the expiration of the lock-up period in May 2008, the New Mountain Funds will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register the sale of their shares under the federal securities laws. If this right is exercised, holders of other shares and, in certain circumstances, stock options may sell their shares alongside the New Mountain Funds, which could cause the prevailing market price of our common stock to 25 Table of Contents decline. Approximately 34 million shares of our common stock (and all shares of common stock underlying options outstanding under our 2005 Stock Option Plan and certain shares of common stock underlying options and restricted stock outstanding under our 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) will be, directly or indirectly, subject to a registration rights agreement upon completion of the lock-up period. We have also filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering shares subject to options outstanding under our 2005 Stock Option Plan and 2007 Plan and shares reserved for issuance under our 2007 Plan and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. A decline in the trading price of our common stock due to the occurrence of any future sales might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Our largest stockholders and their affiliates have substantial control over us and this could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including any change of control. Our largest stockholders, the New Mountain Funds, own, in the aggregate, approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock and 100% of our Class A common stock. As a result, the New Mountain Funds are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The New Mountain Funds will retain the right to elect a majority of our directors so long as they own our Class A common stock and at least one-third of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the New Mountain Funds will have the benefit of the rights conferred by the investor rights agreement, and New Mountain Capital will continue to have certain rights under their advisory agreement. These rights include the ability to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors and control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including any transaction subject to stockholder approval (such as a merger or a sale of substantially all of our assets), as long as they collectively own a majority of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and at least one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, the New Mountain Funds are entitled to collect a transaction fee, on a transaction by transaction basis, equal to 2% of the transaction value of each significant transaction exceeding $25 million in value directly or indirectly involving us or any of our controlled affiliates, including acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or other similar transactions, debt, equity or other financing transactions, public or private offerings of our securities and joint ventures, partnerships and minority investments. The right to collect transaction fees continues until the New Mountain Funds cease to beneficially own at least 15% of our outstanding common stock or a change of control occurs. The New Mountain Funds may have interests that differ from your interests, and they may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. You do not have the same protections available to other stockholders of NASDAQ-listed companies because we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of The NASDAQ Global Select Market’s standards and, as a result, qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from several corporate governance requirements. Our controlling stockholders, the New Mountain Funds, control a majority of our outstanding common stock and have the ability to elect a majority of our board of directors. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules governing companies with stock quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under these rules, a company as to which an individual, a group or another company holds more than 50% of the voting power is considered a “controlled company” and is exempt from several corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and 26 Table of Contents • director nominees be selected or recommended for election by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. We have availed ourselves of these exemptions. In addition, because we listed our common stock in connection with an initial public offering, our audit committee does not currently consist entirely of independent directors, and we are not required to have our audit committee consist of independent directors until one year following the completion of the initial public offering. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are subject to all of The NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance requirements as long as the New Mountain Funds own a majority of our outstanding common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our shareholders’ agreement could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us (as a public company with common stock listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market) from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • provide the New Mountain Funds, through their stock ownership, with the ability to elect a majority of our directors if they beneficially own one-third or more of our common stock; • do not provide for cumulative voting; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office (subject to the rights of the Class A stockholders); • limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; • permit stockholder action by written consent if the New Mountain Funds and its affiliates own one-third or more of our common stock; • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation; and • require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. In addition, certain provisions of our shareholders’ agreement require that certain covered persons (as defined in the shareholders’ agreement) vote their shares of our common stock in favor of certain transactions in which the New Mountain Funds propose to sell all or any of portion of their shares of our common stock or in which we propose to sell or otherwise transfer for value all or substantially all of the stock, assets or business of the company. 