Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below encompass all risks that could affect our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. Risks Relating to Our Technology We might not successfully commercialize our technology, and commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process may never be successfully constructed or operated. We do not have significant experience managing the financing, design, construction or operation of commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants, and we may not be successful in doing so. No commercial-scale GTL or CTL plant based on the Syntroleum Process has been constructed to date. A commercial-scale GTL or CTL plant based on the Syntroleum Process may never be successfully built either by us or by our licensees. Success depends on our ability and the ability of our licensees to economically design, construct and operate commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process. Successful commercial construction and operation of a GTL or CTL plant based on the Syntroleum Process depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process might not produce results necessary for success, including results demonstrated on a laboratory, demonstration and pilot plant basis. A variety of results necessary for successful operation of the Syntroleum Process could fail to occur at a commercial plant, including reactions successfully tested on a laboratory, demonstration plant and pilot plant basis. Results that could cause commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants to be unsuccessful include: • lower reaction activity than that demonstrated in laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration plant operations, which would increase the amount of catalyst or number of reactors required to convert synthesis gas into liquid hydrocarbons and increase capital and operating costs; 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • shorter than anticipated catalyst life, which would require more frequent catalyst regeneration, catalyst purchases, or both, thereby increasing operating costs; • excessive production of gaseous light hydrocarbons from the Fischer-Tropsch reaction compared to design conditions, which would lower the anticipated amount of liquid hydrocarbons produced and would lower revenues and margins from plant operations; • inability of the gas turbines or heaters integrated into the Syntroleum Process to burn the low-heating-value tail gas produced by the process, which would result in the need to incorporate other methods to generate horsepower for the compression process that may increase capital and operating costs; • inability of third-party gasification and synthesis gas clean-up technology integrated into the Syntroleum Process to produce quantities of quality synthesis gas adequate for economic operation of a CTL plant; and • higher than anticipated capital and operating costs to design, construct and operate a GTL or CTL plant. In addition, these plants could experience mechanical difficulties related or unrelated to elements of the Syntroleum Process. Many of our competitors have significantly more resources than we do, and GTL and CTL technologies developed by competitors could become more commercially successful than ours or render our technology obsolete. Development of GTL and CTL technology is highly competitive, and other GTL and CTL technologies could become more commercially successful than ours. The Syntroleum Process is based on chemistry that has been used by several companies in synthetic fuel projects over the past 60 years. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies that have developed or are developing competing GTL and CTL technologies, including BP, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Sasol (including its participation in a joint venture with Chevron) and Shell. Each of these companies has significantly more financial and other resources than we do to spend for research and development of their technologies and for funding construction and operation of commercial-scale GTL or CTL plants. In addition to using their own GTL technologies in competition with us, these competitors could also offer to license their technology to others. Additionally, several small companies have developed and are continuing to develop competing GTL and CTL technologies. The DOE has also sponsored a number of research programs relating to GTL and CTL technology that could potentially lower the cost of competitive processes. As our competitors continue to develop GTL and CTL technologies, one or more of our current technologies could become obsolete. Our ability to create and maintain technological advantages is critical to our future success. As new technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully develop or expend the financial resources necessary to acquire new technology. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights involves complexities and uncertainties and commercialization of the Syntroleum Process could give rise to claims that our technology infringes upon the rights of others. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Additional patents may not be granted, and our existing patents might not provide us with commercial benefit or might be infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. In addition, the availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, are often difficult to predict and vary significantly from country to country. We, our licensors, or our licensees may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our GTL or CTL technology. The 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Commercialization of the Syntroleum Process may give rise to claims that our technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others. We may not become aware of patents or rights that may have applicability in the GTL or CTL industry until after we have made a substantial investment in the development and commercialization of those technologies. Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon past, present or future GTL or CTL technologies. Legal actions could be brought against us, our co-venturers or our licensees claiming damages and seeking an injunction that would prevent us, our co-venturers or our licensees from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technologies. If an infringement action were successful, in addition to potential liability for damages, our co-venturers, our licensees or we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to test, market or commercialize the affected technologies. Any required license might not be made available or, if available, might not be available on acceptable terms, and we could be prevented entirely from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technology. We may have to expend substantial resources in litigation, either in enforcing our patents, defending against the infringement claims of others, or both. Many possible claimants, such as the major energy companies that have or may be developing proprietary GTL or CTL technologies competitive with the Syntroleum Process, have significantly more resources to spend on litigation. We could have potential indemnification liabilities to licensees relating to the operation of GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process or intellectual property disputes. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to us if intellectual property rights claims were to be made against us or our licensees, or if GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process were to fail to operate as designed. Our license agreements require us to indemnify the licensee, subject to a cap of 50 percent of the license fees we receive, against specified losses relating to, among other things: • use of patent rights and technical information relating to the Syntroleum Process; • acts or omissions by us in connection with our preparation of process design packages for plants; and • performance guarantees that we may provide. Industry rejection of our technology would make the construction of GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process more difficult or impossible and would adversely affect our ability to receive future license fees. Demand and industry acceptance for our GTL or CTL technology are subject to uncertainty. Failure by the industry to accept our technology would make construction of our GTL or CTL plants more difficult or impossible, adversely affecting our ability to receive future license fees and generate other revenue. If a high profile industry participant were to adopt the Syntroleum Process and fail to achieve success, or if any commercial GTL or CTL plant based on the Syntroleum Process were to fail to achieve success, other industry participants’ perception of the Syntroleum Process could be adversely affected. If ongoing work to enhance project economics and improvements to the Syntroleum Process is not commercially viable, the design and construction of lower-cost GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process could be delayed or prevented. If improvements to the Syntroleum Process currently under development do not become commercially viable on a timely basis, the total potential market for GTL or CTL plants that could be built by us and our co-venturers and by our licensees could be significantly limited. A number of improvements to the Syntroleum Process are in various stages of development. These improvements will require substantial additional investment, development and testing prior to their commercialization. We might not be successful in developing these improvements and, if developed, they may not be capable of being utilized on a commercial basis. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to Our Business We will need to obtain funds from additional financings or other sources for our business activities. If we do not receive these funds, we would need to reduce, delay or eliminate some of our expenditures. Financing for our projects may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. In addition, we expect that definitive agreements with equity and debt participants in our capital projects will include conditions to funding, many of which could be outside of our control. If adequate funds are not available, we would be required to delay or eliminate expenditures for these projects and may be required to reduce, delay or eliminate expenditures for research and development and other activities or seek to enter into a business combination transaction with or sell assets to another company. We could also be forced to license to third parties the rights to commercialize additional products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to continue research and development of our technologies, to market the Syntroleum Process and to design and construct GTL or CTL plants. We intend to finance these plants primarily through non-recourse debt financing at the project level, as well as through equity financing. Additionally, we intend to obtain additional funds through collaborative or other arrangements with co-venturers and debt and equity financing in the capital markets. If we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued in the future without stockholder approval, and the terms of our preferred stock could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights that are more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. We may not receive revenues from license fees, catalyst sales or sales of specialty products from GTL or CTL plants in which we own an interest. Even if we do receive these revenues, they may not be sufficient for capital expenditures or operations, or may not be received within expected time frames. If we are unable to generate funds from operations, our need to obtain funds through financing activities or asset monetization will be increased. Construction of GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process will be subject to risks of delay and cost overruns. The construction of GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process will be subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns resulting from numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; and • difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals. We have incurred losses and anticipate continued losses. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $283 million. We have not yet achieved profitability and we expect to continue incurring net losses until we recognize sufficient revenues from licensing activities, GTL or CTL plants or other sources. Because we do not have an operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be based, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by small companies seeking to develop new and rapidly evolving technologies. To address these risks we must, among other things, continue to attract investment capital, respond to competitive 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements factors, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and commercialize and continue to upgrade our GTL and CTL technologies. We may not be successful in addressing these risks, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Our anticipated expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future operating activities and not on historical financial data. We plan to continue funding research and development and project development activities. Capital expenditures will depend on progress we make in developing various projects on which we are currently working. Increased revenues or cash flows may not result from these expenses. If prices for crude oil, natural gas, coal and other commodities are unfavorable, GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process may not be economical. Because the synthetic crude oil, liquid fuels and specialty products that Syntroleum Process-based GTL and CTL plants are expected to produce will compete in markets with oil and refined petroleum products, and because natural gas, coal or other materials will be used as the feedstock for these plants, an increase in prices relative to prices for oil and refined products, or a decrease in prices for oil and refined products, could adversely affect the operating results of these plants. Higher than anticipated costs for the catalysts and other materials used in these plants could also adversely affect operating results. Prices for natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Coal prices are also subject to variation due to supply and demand forces beyond our control. Factors that could cause changes in the prices and availability of oil, natural gas, coal and refined products include: • level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulation; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries; • supply of foreign crude oil and natural gas; • location of GTL plants relative to natural gas reserves and pipelines; • location of CTL plants relative to coal reserves and transportation systems; • capacities of pipelines; • fluctuations in seasonal demand; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. We cannot predict the future markets and prices for oil, natural gas, coal or other materials used in the Syntroleum Process or refined products. Our belief that the Syntroleum Process can be cost effective for GTL plants with capacities from 17,000 to over 100,000 b/d depending upon the amount of oil, condensate, and LPG that is produced along with the natural gas assumes prevailing oil prices in the range of at least $25 per barrel. We believe that the Syntroleum Process for CTL can be cost effective assuming prevailing oil prices in the range of $35-40 per barrel, with gasification technology representing approximately 75-80 percent of the capital cost of a CTL plant. However, the markets for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Although 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements world crude oil prices were approximately $59 per barrel in December 2005, crude oil prices fell for a period of time during 1998 to historically low levels below $10 per barrel and could return to such low levels in the future. Adverse operating conditions could prevent GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process from operating economically. The economic application of GTL and CTL technologies depends on favorable plant operating conditions. Among operating conditions that impact plant economics are the site location, infrastructure, weather conditions, size of equipment, quality of the natural gas feedstock, type of plant products and whether the natural gas converted by the plant is associated with oil reserves. For example, if a plant were located in an area that requires construction of substantial infrastructure, plant economics would be adversely affected. Additionally, plants that are not designed to produce specialty products or other high margin products, and plants that are not used to convert natural gas that is associated with oil reserves, will be more dependent on favorable natural gas and oil prices than plants designed for those uses. GTL and CTL plants will depend on the availability of natural gas or coal at economic prices, and alternative uses of natural gas or coal could be preferred in many circumstances. Construction and operation of GTL plants will depend on availability of natural gas at economic prices. The market for natural gas is highly competitive in many areas of the world and, in many circumstances, the sale of natural gas for use as a feedstock in a GTL plant will not be the highest value market for the owner of the natural gas. Cryogenic conversion of natural gas to liquefied natural gas may compete with our GTL plants for use of natural gas as feedstocks in many locations. Local commercial, residential and industrial consumer markets, power generation, ammonia, methanol and petrochemicals are also alternative markets for natural gas. Unlike us, many of our competitors also produce or have access to large volumes of natural gas, which may be used in connection with their GTL operations. The availability of natural gas at economic prices for use as a feedstock for GTL plants may also depend on the production costs for the gas and whether natural gas pipelines are located in the areas where these plants are located. New pipelines may be built or existing pipelines may be expanded into areas where GTL plants are built, and this may affect operating margins of these plants as other markets compete for available natural gas. Construction and operation of CTL plants will depend on the availability of coal or other carbon-based materials such as pet-coke or vacuum resin at economic prices. The cost of coal varies depending upon the energy value per ton of different types of coal and the type of mining operations. The markets for these feedstocks are highly dependent upon the source, location and availability of transportation systems that are generally tied to the power generation sector. Higher coal prices are generally found closer to major population centers where power plants may have a competitive advantage in converting coal to power for transmission in the local region. Our receipt of license fees depends on substantial efforts by our licensees, and our licensees could choose not to construct a GTL or CTL plant based on the Syntroleum Process or to pursue alternative GTL or CTL technologies. Our licensees will determine whether we issue any plant site licenses to them and, as a result, whether we receive any additional license fees under our license agreements. To date, no licensee of the Syntroleum Process has exercised its right to obtain a site license. Under most circumstances, a licensee will need to undertake substantial activities and investments before we issue any plant site licenses and receive license fees. These activities may include performing feasibility studies, obtaining regulatory approvals and permits, obtaining preliminary cost estimates and final design and engineering for the plant, obtaining a sufficient dedicated supply of natural gas, obtaining adequate commitments for the purchase of the plant’s products and obtaining financing for construction of the plant. A licensee will control the amount and timing of resources devoted to these activities. Whether licensees are willing to expend the resources necessary to construct GTL or CTL plants will depend on a variety of factors outside our control, including the prevailing view of price outlook for crude oil, natural gas, coal and refined products. In addition, our license agreements may be terminated by the licensee, with or without cause and without penalty, upon 90 days’ notice to us. If we do not receive payments under our license agreements, we may not have sufficient resources to implement our business strategy. Our licensees are not restricted from pursuing alternative GTL or CTL technologies on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our success depends on the performance of our executive officers, the loss of whom would disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the performance of our executive officers, including Kenneth L. Agee, our founder, Chairman of the Board and inventor with respect to many of our patents and patent applications, and John B. Holmes, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. Given the technological nature of our business, we also depend on our scientific and technical personnel. Our efforts to develop and commercialize our technology have placed a significant strain on our scientific and technical personnel, as well as our operational and administrative resources. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be constrained and the timing of implementation may be impacted if we are unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel. At March 1, 2006, we had 125 full-time employees. Except for a $500,000 life insurance policy that we hold on the life of Kenneth L. Agee, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with several key employees. We depend on strategic relationships with manufacturing and engineering companies. If these companies fail to provide necessary components or services, this could negatively impact our business. We intend to, and believe our licensees will, utilize third-party component manufacturers in the design and construction of GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process. If any third-party manufacturer is unable to acquire raw materials or provide components of GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process in commercial quantities in a timely manner and within specifications, we or our licensees could experience material delays or construction or development plans could be canceled while alternative suppliers or manufacturers are identified. We have no experience in manufacturing and do not have any manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we will depend on third parties to manufacture components for GTL and CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process. We have conducted development activities with third parties for our proprietary catalysts and other equipment, including turbines that may be used in the Syntroleum Process, and other manufacturing companies may not have the same expertise as these companies. We also intend to utilize third parties to provide engineering services in connection with our efforts to commercialize the Syntroleum Process. If these engineering firms are unable to provide requisite services or performance guarantees, we or our licensees could experience material delays or construction plans could be canceled while alternative engineering firms are identified and become familiar with the Syntroleum Process. We have limited experience in providing engineering services and have a limited engineering staff. Consequently, we will depend on third parties to provide necessary engineering services, and these firms may be asked by licensees or financial participants in plants to provide performance guarantees in connection with the design and construction of GTL or CTL plants based on the Syntroleum Process. Our operating results may be volatile due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future annual and quarterly operating results because of the unpredictability of many factors that impact our business. These factors include: • timing of any construction by us or our licensees of GTL and CTL plants; • demand for licenses of the Syntroleum Process and receipt and revenue recognition of license fees; • oil and gas prices; • coal prices; • timing and productivity of oil and gas wells; • timing and amount of research and development expenditures; • demand for synthetic fuels and specialty products; 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • introduction or enhancement of GTL or CTL technologies by us and our competitors; • availability of insurance; • market acceptance of new technologies; and • general economic conditions. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it may be that in some future year or quarter our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive laws relating to the protection of the environment, and these laws may increase the cost of designing, constructing and operating our GTL and CTL plants. If we violate any of the laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, we may be subject to substantial fines, criminal sanctions or third party lawsuits and may be required to install costly pollution control equipment or, in some extreme cases, curtail operations. Our GTL or CTL plants will generally be required to obtain permits under applicable environmental laws and various permits for industrial siting and construction. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as with any requisite environmental or construction permits, may increase the costs of designing, constructing and operating our GTL or CTL plants. We may also face exposure to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters with respect to our previously owned real estate. Terrorist threats and U.S. military actions could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the United States commenced military actions in response to these attacks. On March 19, 2003, the United States and a coalition of other countries initiated military action in Iraq for the stated purpose of removing that country’s government and destroying its ability to use or produce weapons of mass destruction. Further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could occur. In addition, recent world political events have resulted in increasing tension involving Iran, North Korea and Syria. These developments and similar future events may cause instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets and could significantly increase political and economic instability in the geographic areas in which we may wish to operate. These developments could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas. In addition, these developments could adversely affect our ability to access capital and to successfully implement projects currently under development. Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums charged for many coverages and issued general notices of cancellations to their customers for war risk, terrorism and political risk insurance with respect to a variety of insurance coverages. Insurance premiums could be increased further or coverages may be unavailable in the future. United States government regulations effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we may wish to operate in the future. These developments could subject the operations of our company to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sufficient markets for the synthetic products of the Syntroleum Process or products that utilize these synthetic products, including fuel cells, may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Sufficient markets may never develop for the synthetic products of the Syntroleum Process, or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. The development of sufficient markets for the synthetic products of the Syntroleum Process may be affected by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: • cost competitiveness of the synthetic products of the Syntroleum Process; • consumer reluctance to try a new product; 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • environmental, safety and regulatory requirements; and • emergence of more competitive products. In addition, a new market may fail to develop for products that utilize our synthetic products. For example, the establishment of a market for the use of these products as fuel for fuel cells is uncertain, in part because fuel cells represent an emerging market and we do not know if distributors will want to sell them or if end-users will want to use them. If sufficient markets fail to develop or develop more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred in the development of our technology and may never achieve profitability. We may not be successful in acquiring interests in oil and natural gas properties. The successful acquisition of oil and natural gas properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, capital and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments, even when performed by experienced personnel, are necessarily inexact and uncertain. Our review of subject properties will not reveal all existing or potential problems, deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always perform inspections on every well, and may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we undertake an inspection. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of these problems. Because we do not have a database of acquired properties and other resources used in acquiring interests in oil and gas properties, we may not be as well positioned as many of our competitors to successfully acquire interests in properties. Natural gas and oil drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. Drilling for natural gas and oil involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • unexpected or adverse drilling conditions; • elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews and equipment. Even if drilled, our completed wells may not produce reserves of natural gas or oil that are economically viable or that meet our earlier estimates of economically recoverable reserves. Our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular project area may decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in our production and revenues and materially harm our operations and financial condition by reducing our available cash and resources. Because of the risks and uncertainties of our business, our future performance in exploration and drilling may not be comparable to our historical performance described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. The natural gas and oil business involves operating hazards such as: • well blowouts; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • mechanical failures; • explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • fires; • geologic formations with abnormal pressures; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • releases of toxic gases; and • other environmental hazards and risks. Any of these hazards and risks can result in the loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, personal injury claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry a significant amount of business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 