ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Hurricane Katrina severely impacted our market area and there still are many uncertainties regarding recovery. The Bank’s primary market area is Metairie, Louisiana and the greater New Orleans metropolitan area, an area which is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Hurricane Katrina hit the greater New Orleans area in August 2005. The hurricane caused widespread property damage, required the relocation of an unprecedented number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. Prior to Hurricane Katrina, the New Orleans SMSA was estimated to have a population of approximately 1.34 million, of which approximately 458,000 persons were estimated to live in the City of New Orleans. Post Katrina, the population for metropolitan New Orleans in December 2007 is estimated at approximately 1.17 million, a decline of approximately 170,000 residents. The population of the City of New Orleans was estimated at 300,000 people for December 2007, or a decline of about 35% from its pre-Katrina size. While rebuilding efforts are underway, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to the economic climate for the New Orleans metropolitan area given the need to address the multitude of interdependent problems, such as the full scale return of tourism and its job promotion and the return of population to fill those jobs, combined with the need to address the housing shortage, uncertainty as to the availability of homeowner’s insurance, the full restoration of basic services, such as water, gas and electricity, health care and the transportation network, as well as the flood prevention system. There can be no assurance that the repairs and improvements made in the wake of Hurricane Katrina will withstand another hurricane or tropical storm. Hurricane Katrina affected our loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing certain borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. As a result of the hurricane, we made a $4.8 million provision for loan losses in 2005. During 2007 and 2006 we reversed approximately $300,000 and $2.0 million of such provisions. The after effects of the hurricane may continue to affect our loan quality, loan originations into the future and could also adversely impact our deposit base. More generally, our ability to compete effectively in the banking business in the future, especially with financial institutions whose operations are not concentrated in the affected area or which have greater resources than we do, will depend primarily on our ability to continue normal business operations and grow despite the impact of the hurricane. The severity and duration of these effects will depend on a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including the amount and timing of government, private and philanthropic investment (including deposits) in the region, the pace of rebuilding and economic recovery in the region generally and the extent to which the hurricane’s property damage is covered by insurance. 5 None of the effects described above can be accurately predicted or quantified at this time. As a result, some uncertainty remains regarding the impact Hurricane Katrina will have on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Bank. Further, the area in which we operate may experience hurricanes and other storms in the future, and some of those hurricanes and storms may have effects similar to those caused by Hurricane Katrina. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. The operations of savings associations are affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the risk factor below. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the metropolitan New Orleans area because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in our local economy. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and construction lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate. In addition, we originate loans for the construction of residential and commercial use properties. Commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium size businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans, education loans and loans secured by automobiles, boats, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interests rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. 6 Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans and leases. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and our subsidiary are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiary are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and our operations in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 