ITEM 1A Risk Factors Changes in general economic and market conditions and interest rates may significantly affect the value of the Company’s investment portfolio. The Company’s investment portfolio primarily consists of fixed-income securities and mortgage loans on real estate. The market values of these invested assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions and the interest rate environment. For example, if interest rates rise, the investments generally will decrease in value. If interest rates decline, the investments generally will increase in value with the possible exception of mortgage-backed securities (MBSs), which may decline due to higher prepayments on the mortgages underlying the securities. MBSs, including collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), are subject to prepayment risks that vary with interest rates, among other things. During periods of declining interest rates, MBSs generally prepay faster as the underlying mortgages are prepaid and/or refinanced by borrowers in order to take advantage of lower rates. MBSs that have an amortized cost greater than par (i.e., purchased at a premium) may incur a reduction in yield or a loss as a result of such prepayments. In addition, during such periods, the Company generally will be unable to reinvest the proceeds of any such prepayment at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the frequency of prepayments generally decreases. MBSs that have an amortized value less than par (i.e., purchased at a discount) may incur a decrease in yield or a loss as a result of slower prepayments. The Company attempts to mitigate the negative impact of interest rate changes through asset/liability management, including investing in non-callable bonds where practical and purchasing private placement bonds and entering into mortgage loan contracts that provide prepayment protection. There can be no assurance, however, that management will be able to successfully manage the negative impact of interest rate changes. Additionally, for business, regulatory or other reasons, the Company periodically may elect or be required to sell certain of its invested assets when their fair values are less than their original cost, resulting in realized capital losses, which would reduce net income. Changes in interest rates and in the financial markets may reduce the Company’s interest spread income, earnings and sales. The Company is exposed to various interest rate risks. Many of the products contain guarantees that require the Company to credit at least a minimum rate of interest to policyholders. In addition, for competitive reasons, the Company may at times continue to credit above-minimum interest rates to policyholders despite reductions in prevailing market interest rates. Current crediting rates for many of the Company’s individual annuity products are at or near the contractual minimum rates. Decreases in market interest rates would result in declines in the portfolio yield on investments backing the Company’s individual annuity products. A reduction in interest spread income, the difference between the interest rates that the Company credits policyholders and the yield the Company is able to earn on investments, may reduce earnings. If policyholders cancel their policies or withdraw the cash values of their policies to seek better investment yields in response to changing interest rates, the Company’s revenues are likely to decrease. If market interest rates decline, net investment income will decrease if higher-yielding fixed-income securities mature or are redeemed and the proceeds must be reinvested in lower-yielding securities. Volatility in interest rates and equity markets could reduce consumer demand for the Company’s products and result in lower sales. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact the Company’s liquidity. Significant increases in prevailing interest rates may cause the Company’s policyholders to withdraw the cash value of their policies as they seek more attractive returns. If large numbers of policyholders or policyholders with large balances withdraw their policy values, the Company may be required to borrow funds or 17 Table of Contents liquidate investments to raise the cash necessary to fund their withdrawals. Particularly in periods of volatile interest rates, liquidations can result in capital losses to the Company. Because volatile interest rates often make fixed-income investments like mortgages and privately placed bonds more difficult to sell, there is also a risk that the Company will find it difficult to raise the cash necessary to fund a very large amount of withdrawal activity. A decline in the equity markets can cause the values of the Company’s separate account assets to decline and reduce revenues, increase claims, increase payment obligations under guaranteed contracts and result in the accelerated amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC). A significant source of revenues for the Company is derived from asset management fees, which are calculated as a percentage of separate account assets. Gains and losses in the equity markets will result in corresponding increases or decreases in separate account assets and asset management fee revenue. In addition, a decrease in separate account assets may decrease the Company’s expectations of future profit margins due to a decrease in asset fee revenue and/or an increase in guaranteed contract claims, which also may require the Company to accelerate the amortization of DAC. See Part II, Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Equity Market Risk for a complete discussion of risk factors related to equity market risk, including guaranteed contracts. Deviations from assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity and interest rates used in calculating reserve amounts could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated net income. The process of calculating reserve amounts for a life insurance organization involves the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with a company), mortality, morbidity and interest rates (the rates expected to be paid or received on financial instruments, including insurance or investment contracts). Actual results could differ significantly from those assumed. As such, deviations from one or more of these assumptions could result in material adverse impacts on the Company’s consolidated net income. A decline in the Company’s financial strength ratings could adversely affect the Company’s operations. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Ratings for a description of risk factors related to ratings. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders rather than the Company. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Regulation at State Level for a general description of the regulations designed to benefit or protect policyholders. Changes in regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may adversely impact pricing, reserve adequacy or exposure to litigation and could increase the costs of regulatory compliance by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Any proposed or future state legislation or regulations may negatively impact the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Certain changes in federal laws and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal legislation, administrative policies and court decisions may significantly and adversely affect certain areas of the Company’s business. In addition to product tax issues, these areas include pension and employee welfare benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation and taxation generally. For example, the following events could adversely affect the Company’s business: • changes in laws such as ERISA, as amended, that apply to group annuities (see Part I, Item 1—Business —Regulation—ERISA Considerations for a complete discussion of ERISA); • changes in tax laws that would reduce or eliminate the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products; • repeal of the federal estate tax; • changes in applicable regulations that could restrict the ability of some companies to purchase certain COLI products; 18 Table of Contents • changes in the availability of, or rules concerning the establishment and operation of, Section 401(k), 403(b) and 457 plans or individual retirement accounts; • changes in tax laws (see Part I, Item 1—Business—Regulation—Potential Tax Legislation for a description of risk factors related to potential tax legislation); or • changes in tax regulations, such as the proposed regulations that would alter the way tax sheltered annuities described in Section 403(b) of the IRC may be offered and sold. Litigation or regulatory actions in connection with late trading, market timing, compensation and bidding arrangements, unsuitable sales and replacements, the use of finite reinsurance and/or other sales practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings for a description of litigation and regulatory actions. These and future litigation matters may negatively affect the Company by resulting in the payment of substantial awards or settlements, increasing legal and compliance costs, diverting management attention from other business issues or harming the Company’s reputation with customers. Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company is subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which periodically are revised and/or expanded. As such, the Company periodically is required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements could change the Company’s current application of GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military and other actions may result in decreases in the Company’s consolidated net income, revenue and assets under management and may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and abroad and the ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility and declines in the U.S., European and other securities markets, loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Actual terrorist attacks could cause a decrease in the Company’s consolidated net income and/or revenue as a result of decreased economic activity and/or payment of claims. In addition, some of the assets in the Company’s investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the securities markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. The Company cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which the Company maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Although the Company does not believe that the continued threat of terrorist attacks will have any material impact on the Company’s financial strength or performance, the Company can offer no assurances that this threat, future terrorist-like events in the U.S. and abroad or military actions by the U.S. will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry, which can significantly impact operating results. See Part I, Item 1—Business—Competition for a description of competitive factors affecting the Company. The Company’s revenues and profitability could be negatively impacted as a result of competition. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 