D. RISK FACTORS We are engaged primarily in transporting crude oil and oil products and expect, with the acquisition of two Capesize dry bulk carriers in 2009, to operate in the dry bulk market. The following summarizes some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industries Tankers The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings Historically, the tanker industry has been highly cyclical, with volatility in profitability and asset values resulting from changes in the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. When the tanker market is depressed our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current spot and time and bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for oil tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: ● demand for oil and oil products; ● global and regional economic and political conditions; ● changes in oil production and refining capacity; ● environmental and other regulatory developments; ● the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and ● changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. 2 The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: ● the number of newbuilding deliveries; ● the scrapping rate of older vessels; ● port or canal congestion; ● vessel casualties; ● price of steel; ● potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; ● the number of vessels that are out of service; and ● changes in environmental and other regulations that may effectively cause reductions in the carrying capacity of vessels or early obsolescence of tonnage. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. The current global economic crisis may reduce demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and supply of tankers to carry that oil, which may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The international tanker industry has experienced volatile charter rates and vessel values and there can be no assurance that these charter rates and vessel values will return to their previous high values Charter rates in the tanker industry are volatile. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economy as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world's fleet. We believe that these charter rates are the result of economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in global vessel capacity. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a further decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A further decline in vessel values and charter rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividends. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil may adversely affect our financial performance The demand for our oil tankers derives primarily from demand for Arabian Gulf and West African crude oil, along with crude oil from the former Soviet Union, or the FSU, which, in turn, primarily depends on the economies of the world's industrial countries and competition from alternative energy sources. A wide range of economic, social and other factors can significantly affect the strength of the world's industrial economies and their demand for crude oil from the mentioned geographical areas. One such factor is the price of worldwide crude oil. The world's oil markets have experienced high levels of volatility in the last 25 years. In July 2008, oil prices rose to a high of approximately $143 per barrel before decreasing to approximately $38 per barrel by the end of December 2008. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil from the above mentioned geographical areas would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Among the factors which could lead to such a decrease are: ● increased crude oil production from other areas; ● increased refining capacity in the Arabian Gulf, West Africa or the FSU; ● increased use of existing and future crude oil pipelines in the Arabian Gulf, West Africa and FSU; ● a decision by Arabian Gulf, West African and FSU oil-producing nations to increase their crude oil prices or to further decrease or limit their crude oil production; ● armed conflict in the Arabian Gulf and West Africa and political or other factors; and ● the development and the relative costs of nuclear power, natural gas, coal and other alternative sources of energy. An over-supply of tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates, vessel values and profitability If the capacity of new vessels delivered exceeds the capacity of tankers being scrapped and converted to non-trading tankers, tanker capacity will increase. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline. A reduction in charter rates and the value of our vessels may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our ability to pay dividends and our compliance with loan covenants. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline Over the last year, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility following adverse changes in the global credit markets. The credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and governments around the world have taken highly significant measures in response to such events, including the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in the United States, and may implement other significant responses in the future. 3 Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have enacted temporary emergency regulations and may take other extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies and may effect permanent changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations, including our ability to take delivery of our newbuildings. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. For example, in November 2008, the M/V Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. If these pirate attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: ● a marine disaster; ● piracy; ● environmental accidents; ● cargo and property losses or damage; and ● business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. 4 Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable tanker operator. Safety, environmental and other governmental requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the United States Clean Air Act and United States Clean Water Act, the United States Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended, or CLC, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, of 1975, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 or LL Convention, and implementing regulations adopted by the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO (the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by vessels), the European Union, or the EU, and other international, national and local regulatory bodies. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators such as ourselves may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. For example, various jurisdictions, including the United States, are considering or have enacted legislation imposing more stringent requirements on air emissions and ballast water discharges from vessels. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo-capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in United States waters. Similarly, the CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. OPA also provides for the scheduled phase-out of all non-double-hull tankers that carry oil in bulk in United States waters. The IMO and the EU, have adopted separate phase-out schedules applicable to single-hull tankers operating in international and EU waters, respectively. These regulations could reduce the demand for single-hull tankers, force the remaining single-hull vessels into less desirable trading routes, increase the number of vessels trading in routes open to single-hull vessels and could increase demands for further restrictions in the remaining jurisdictions that permit the operation of these vessels. As a result, single-hull vessels are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non-double-hull phase-out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to us. Future accidents may be expected in the industry, and such accidents or other events may be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. 5 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency resulting in a loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize one of more of our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. This amount could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels would negatively impact our revenues and therefore impact our ability to service our debt. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government From time to time, vessels in our fleet may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent our vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view such port calls negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares of common stock, or Ordinary Shares. Investor perception of the value of our Ordinary Shares may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Dry bulk Charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings once we take delivery of our newbuilding dry bulk vessels The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely, and charterhire rates for dry bulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: ● supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; ● changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; ● the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; ● the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; ● the globalization of production and manufacturing; ● global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities; embargoes and strikes; ● developments in international trade; ● changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; ● environmental and other regulatory developments; ● currency exchange rates; and ● weather. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: ● number of newbuilding deliveries; ● scrapping of older vessels; ● vessel casualties; and 6 ● number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk vessels upon their delivery to us will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. A continued downturn in the dry bulk carrier charter market may have an adverse effect on our earnings, the value of our dry bulk vessels when they are delivered to us and our ability to comply with our loan covenants The Baltic Dry Index, or BDI, a daily average of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis and covering Supramax, Panamax, and Capesize dry bulk carriers, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. Since December 2008 it has risen to 4,106 through June 2, 2009, representing an increase of 519%, although it remains approximately 65% below its record highs. During the first quarter of 2009 the BDI has risen 108% and the Baltic Panamax and Baltic Supramax Indices increased 154% and 213%, respectively. The general decline in the dry bulk carrier charter market has resulted in lower charter rates for vessels exposed to the spot market and time charters linked to the BDI. Although we have entered into five year charter agreements which are scheduled to commence following the delivery of our newbuilding dry bulk carriers to us, our ability to obtain renewal charters upon the expiration of our current charters or charters for new vessels that we may acquire in the future will be directly impacted by prevailing BDI charter rates. Dry bulk carrier values have also declined both as a result of a slowdown in the availability of global credit and the significant deterioration in charter rates. Charter rates and vessel values have been affected in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates and vessel values will remain at their currently low levels or whether the recent improvement will continue. Charter rates may remain at low levels for some time which will adversely affect our revenue and profitability and could affect compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may prolong or further depress the current low charter rates and, in turn, adversely affect our profitability The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2008. As of May 30, 2009, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 68% of the current global dry bulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. According to market sources about 50% of the dry bulk fleet is contracted at established yards, while the other 50% is contracted at yards that are less established and whose viability may be uncertain. Due to lack of financing many analysts expect significant cancellations and/ or slippage of newbuilding orders. While vessel supply will continue to be affected by the delivery of new vessels and the removal of vessels from the global fleet, either through scrapping or accidental losses, an over-supply of dry bulk carrier capacity, particularly in conjunction with the currently low level of demand, could exacerbate the recent decrease in charter rates or prolong the period during which low charter rates prevail. If the current low charter rate environment persists, or a further reduction occurs, during a period when thecurrent charters for our dry bulk carriers expire or are terminated, we may only be able to recharter those vessels at reduced rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues experience seasonal variations that may affect our income We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. Historically, oil trade and therefore charter rates increased in the winter months and eased in the summer months as demand for oil in the Northern Hemisphere rose in colder weather and fell in warmer weather. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in the winter months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling. The tanker industry in general is less dependent on the seasonal transport of heating oil than a decade ago as new uses for oil and oil products have developed, spreading consumption more evenly over the year. Most apparent is a higher seasonal demand during the summer months due to energy requirements for air conditioning and motor vehicles. The oil price volatility resulting from these factors has historically led to increased oil trading activities and demand for vessels. The change in demand for vessels may affect the charter rates that we receive. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels which may adversely affect our earnings 7 The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on but not limited to the following factors: ● general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; ● competition from other shipping companies; ● types and sizes of vessels; ● other modes of transportation; ● cost of newbuildings; ● shipyard capacity; ● governmental or other regulations; ● age of vessels; ● prevailing level of charter rates; and ● technological advances. If we sell a vessel at a time when ship prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. In addition, if we determine at any time that a vessel's future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction of our shareholders' equity. It is possible that the market value of our vessels will decline in the future and this will also have an adverse effect on some of the financial covenants in our loan agreements. We may be unable to successfully compete with other tanker operators for charters The operation of tankers and transportation of crude and petroleum products and the other businesses in which we operate are extremely competitive. Through our operating subsidiaries we compete with other oil tanker owners (including major oil companies as well as independent companies), and, to a lesser extent, owners of other size vessels. The tanker market is highly fragmented. It is possible that our competitive position will erode in the future. We receive a portion of our charterhire revenue from a limited number of customers including Frontline Ltd. We will derive a significant portion of our revenues from two charters with Frontline Ltd, or Frontline, a Bermuda corporation. If we were to lose one or both of our charters with Frontline, or any of our other customers, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement charter for the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as under our current charters. The loss of any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our tankers Currently, three of our tankers are contractually committed to time charters, with the remaining terms of these charters expiring on dates between 2010 and 2012. Although these time charters generally provide reliable revenues, they also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our tankers in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our tankers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our current credit facilities We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our assets. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facilities may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facilities, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Delays or defaults by the shipyard in the construction of our new vessels could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows 8 We have entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of two Capesize dry bulk carriers with Daehan Shipbuilding Co. Ltd. in the Republic of Korea. We have also entered into related long-term time charters for employment of these vessels upon their expected delivery to us in August and October 2009. The newbuilding projects are subject to the risk of delay or defaults by the shipyard caused by, among other things, the financial condition of the shipyard, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyard is unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels, we may not have substantial remedies. In addition, if the delivery of any of the newbuildings is cancelled or significantly delayed, we might be unable to perform under the related long-term time charters, which may be cancelled. Failure to construct or deliver the ships by the shipyard or any significant delays could increase our expenses and result in cancellation of the related long-term time charters diminishing our net income and cash flows. We have no history of operating dry bulk carriers and we may not be able to enter, or effectively manage our entry into dry bulk market, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividend The acquisition and eventual management of our two newbuilding Capesize dry bulk carriers will impose significant responsibilities on our management. We do not have any experience transporting dry bulk products nor do we have any history of operating or competing in that business. As we have no history of operating dry bulk carriers, it is difficult to predict our needs when entering into the dry bulk market. We will also have to market our services to a new customer base so that we can provide continued deployment of our vessels. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future line of business which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. As we expand our fleet, we may not be able to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels which may limit our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer We may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet of vessels. If we are unable to recruit suitable employees and crews, we may not be able to provide our services to customers, our growth may be limited and our financial performance may suffer. We may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or enter into new time charters for newbuildings Currently, three of our vessels are employed on time charters. We have also entered into long-term charters for the employment of our two Capesize dry bulk carriers upon their expected delivery in August and October 2009. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time charters will be renewed or that we will be successful in entering into new time charters on the newbuildings that will be delivered to us or if renewed or entered into, that they will be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters or delivery of newbuildings, we are unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, our profitability may be adversely affected. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business We have entered into various contracts, including charter parties with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards and our credit facilities. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges The carrying values of our vessels are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the vessel may no longer be recoverable. We assess recoverability of the carrying value by estimating the future net cash flows expected to result from the vessel, including eventual disposal If the future net undiscounted cash flows and the estimated fair market value of the vessel are less than the carrying value an impairment loss is recorded equal to the difference between the vessel's carrying value and fair value. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or the trading price of our Ordinary Shares. Fuel or bunker prices, may adversely affect our profits Fuel or bunkers, is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 9 If our vessels suffer damage due to inherent operational risks of the tanker business, we may experience unexpected drydocking costs and delays or total loss of our vessels, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and the costs associated with a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available to us. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs or loss which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Incurrence of expenses or liabilities may reduce or eliminate distributions Our policy is to make distributions to shareholders based on the Company's earnings and cash flow. The amount and timing of dividends will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, cash position, Bermuda law affecting the payment of distributions and other factors. However, we could incur other expenses or contingent liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution by us as dividends. Our loan agreement prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends if we are in default under such loan agreement. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. Our financing obligations could affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness or engage in certain transactions Our existing and future financing agreements impose operational and financing restrictions on us which may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell capital shares of subsidiaries, make certain investments, engage in mergers and acquisitions, purchase and sell vessels, enter into time or consecutive voyage charters or pay dividends without the consent of our lenders. In addition, our lenders may accelerate the maturity of indebtedness under our financing agreements and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including our failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in our financing agreements, not rectified within the permitted time. For instance, declining vessel values could lead to a breach of covenants under our financing agreements. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral or obtain waivers from our lenders, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels. In addition, if the lenders accelerate the debt outstanding under one facility in default, it could result in a default on our other facilities. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow The London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. 10 We may not be able to finance our future capital commitments We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to reduce expenditures for investments in new and existing projects, which could hinder our growth and prevent us from realizing potential revenues from prior investments which will have a negative impact on our cash flows and results of operations. If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement at the end of a vessel's useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends would be adversely affected. Any funds set aside for vessel replacement will not be available for dividends. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if our vessels are damaged or lost We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. Additionally, our insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside of the United States. Changing economic, regulatory, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the military response by the United States has increased the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability, as shown by the attack on the Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, attacks on oil pipelines during and subsequent to the Iraq war in 2003 and attacks on expatriate workers in the Middle East could adversely affect the oil trade and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, govern our affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company; not to the company's shareholder. Our shareholders may not have a direct course of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our Bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission except for an act or omission constituting fraud, dishonesty or illegality. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 11 Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation"), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common shares. See "Taxation" for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States Our executive offices, administrative activities and assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against us in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we, or our subsidiaries, could be subject for those years to an effective 4% United States federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our Liberian subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation, which would materially reduce our Liberian subsidiaries', and consequently our, net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax The Republic of Liberia enacted an income tax law generally effective as of January 1, 2001, or the New Act, which repealed, in its entirety, the prior income tax law in effect since 1977, pursuant to which our Liberian subsidiaries, as non-resident domestic corporations, were wholly exempt from Liberian tax. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations, or the New Regulations, pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from tax as under prior law. 12 If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, our Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as a shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. Investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. 