ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and in the other sections of, and the documents we have incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when deciding whether to purchase our ordinary shares. The risks and uncertainties described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 Risks Related to Our Business In the past few years, we have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. If these trends continue, and we are not able to obtain adequate financing, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in the recent past. We had net losses of $4.0 million and $11.4 million in each of the years 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our negative cash flows from operations were $2.8 million in 2013 compared to $4.3 million in 2012. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million as of December 31, 2012. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future, that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred, that we will be able to improve our liquidity or that we will be able to find alternative financing if necessary. If these trends continue, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a credit facility with one bank which expires October 1, 2014. There is no assurance that this credit facility will be available in the future or that we will be able to obtain financing from other entities. In the past, we had several credit facilities with multiple banks. Following the repayment of all of our loans to the banking institutions, we currently maintain only one credit facility which expires October 1, 2014. If we continue incurring significant losses and negative cash flows, as we have in the recent past, we may be required to raise funds or obtain alternative financing in order to finance our operations. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available, either from investors or financing institutions. Banks usually require as a condition to providing financing, compliance with covenants regarding our maintenance of certain financial ratios. In addition, those covenants may include restrictions on the operation of our business, including, among other things, our ability to pledge our assets, dispose of assets, issue certain securities, make loans or give guarantees, make certain acquisitions, and engage in mergers or consolidations. Additional restrictions may stipulate the balances we can maintain in non-affiliated banks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our outstanding credit facility or negotiate new credit facilities on favorable terms to us. Our ability to obtain financing, when required, depends in part on the future performance of our business and the condition of the capital markets. If we do not reach agreements with financing institutions, when required, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to raise cash or obtain financing from other third parties, including our shareholders. Moreover, even if we succeed in negotiating financing arrangements with third parties, we cannot assure you that the terms of such arrangements would be favorable to us or advantageous to our existing shareholders. Raising money to finance our operations involves, from time to time, issuance of equity securities which may dilute your holdings in our company. In order to finance our operations, we may raise capital from time to time from our shareholders or other third parties. Our arrangements with any such parties may include the issuance of equity or debt securities or conversion options of loans and interest accrued thereon into equity securities. For example, in 2012, we entered into a series of transactions with our three major shareholders, which included conversion options (which have since been exercised) of the loans extended to us by such shareholders, into ordinary shares. In addition, in 2013, we issued shares to one of our major shareholders, Prescott Group Aggressive Small Cap Master Fund, G.P, through a private placement, which also included an anti-dilution clause for the potential issuance of additional shares upon the occurrence of certain events. The issuance of equity securities to certain investors would dilute your holdings in our company. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions and decreases in capital expenditures by our customers have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our revenue is dependent upon the strength of the worldwide economy. In particular, we depend upon our customers making continuing capital investments in information technology products, such as those marketed and sold by us. These spending levels are impacted by the worldwide level of demand for enterprise legacy IT modernization solutions and services. Demand is normally a function of prevailing global or regional economic conditions and is negatively affected by a general economic slow-down as consumers reduce discretionary spending on information technology upgrades. Although there have been indications that the economy may be improving in many areas, this has not resulted in an increase in purchases by our customers. Our revenues decreased from $10.6 million in 2012 to $8.5 million in 2013. 8 We have identified and continue to experience, from time to time, delays in purchase order placement by our customers and longer sales cycles. The negotiation process with our customers has developed into a lengthy and expensive process. Customers with excess IT resources have chosen and may continue to choose to develop in-house software solutions rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, we anticipate that our low liquidity and financial condition may negatively impact the willingness of customers to place purchase orders with us. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or any subsequent recovery. If the conditions in the markets in which we operate remain the same or worsen from present levels, or if customers are dissuaded to contract us due to our financial condition, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We had negative cash flows from operations in 2013 and 2012 which may continue if we are not successful at increasing our revenues or reducing our expense level. We had negative operating cash flows of $2.8 million in 2013 and $4.3 million in 2012. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2013 and 2012, we continue to assess our infrastructure costs and reduce workforce and labor costs as they constitute a substantial portion of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. In February 2013, we sold the operations of BridgeQuest, Inc. and its subsidiary. This sale, as well as those consummated in 2012, together with our cost saving plan, were intended to set our expenses at a level commensurate with expected revenue levels. There can be no assurance, however, that such plans will result in reduced expense levels commensurate with our reduced level of revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of customers, generally, and in particular the loss of a significant customer or several customers that, together, account for a significant portion of our revenues, could cause a reduction in our revenues and profitability, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not know if, or for how much longer, our customers will continue to purchase the products and services that we offer. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our current and historical net revenues. In 2013, IBM Corporation accounted for 13.9% of our revenue. In 2012, NCS PTE Ltd. and CenterPoint Energy Service Company LLC accounted for 14.3% and 11.7% of our revenues, respectively. The loss of any major customer or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customer could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The loss of several customers at once may impact our revenues and profitability significantly, even if each of those customers, separately, has not accounted for a significant amount of our revenues. The loss of customers may cause a significant decrease in revenues and profitability which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products and solutions as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from one of our majority-owned subsidiaries. Therefore, a significant decrease in revenues of such subsidiary or any other material adverse events affecting such subsidiary, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of our majority-owned subsidiaries, Zulu Software Inc., contributed a material portion of our revenues in 2013. We do not wholly own this subsidiary, although we control it. A significant decrease in revenues of such subsidiary or any other material adverse events affecting such subsidiary, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments based upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 9 If we are unable to effectively control our costs while maintaining our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations and, in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships while protecting profitability and cash flow. However, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses due to the ongoing need to maintain our worldwide customer service and support operations and to invest in research and development. In circumstances of reduced overall demand for our products, or if orders received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our fixed cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to economic downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2013 and 2012, we continue to assess our infrastructure costs and reduce workforce and labor costs as they constitute a substantial portion of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our IT solutions. If we have to aggressively reduce our costs, we may not have sufficient resources to capture new IT projects, timely comply with project delivery schedules and meet customer demand. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity to capitalize on periods of economic upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business would be adversely affected. The IT modernization business is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our technology and services. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the solutions we offer in order to keep up with technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our technology and services, or developing or acquiring new technology that adequately addresses changing customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the technology and services we offer will be accepted by customers. If our technology and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment and customer requirements, and new product introductions by existing or future competitors, could render our existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current technology or develop new technology. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time, and other resources to meet the demand. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. Furthermore, modernization projects deal with customer mission critical applications, and therefore encapsulate risk for the customer. Therefore, customers are more cautious in entering into transactions with us, and accordingly, the process for approval and signing of deals may be lengthy and expensive. We make efforts to mitigate such risks associated with legacy modernization projects but from time to time we encounter delays in the negotiation process. We may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which makes it difficult to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations can occur as a result of any of the following events: ● global economic trends; ● global political trends, in particular, in the middle east and in countries in which we operate; ● adverse economic conditions in various geographic areas where our customers and potential customers operate; 10 ● acquisitions and dispositions of companies and assets; ● timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; ● timing of product releases; ● timing of contracts; ● changes in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; and ● currency fluctuations and financial expenses related to our financial instruments. For example, our revenues decreased to $8.5 million in 2013 compared to $10.6 million in 2012. The decrease in our revenues in recent years stems primarily from a softening in the monetary value of the average deal size, mostly in our legacy modernization projects. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. A delay in collecting our fees could result in cash flow shortages, which in turn may significantly impact our financial results. Typical modernization projects which deploy our solutions are long-term projects. Therefore, payment for these projects or a substantial portion of our fees may be delayed until the successful completion of specified milestones. In addition, the payment of our fees is dependent upon customer acceptance of the completed work and our ability to collect the fees. In light of the global economy downturn, collecting our fees from customers has become increasingly difficult. Although the timing of receipt of our fees varies, we incur the majority of our expenses on a current basis. As a result, a delay in the collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages. Our results have been materially adversely affected by the impairment of the value of certain intangible assets, and we may experience impairment charges in the future. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013, include, among other things, goodwill valued at approximately $12.5 million. The applicable accounting standards require that goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to an annual impairment test, as well as periodic impairment tests if impairment indicators are present. In each of 2013 and 2012, following impairment tests we performed, no goodwill impairment was identified. If we continue to experience reduced cash flows and our market capitalization falls below the value of our equity, or actual results of operations differ materially from our modeling estimates and related assumptions, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. If our goodwill or intangible assets were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to our failure to achieve our goals, or if we fail to accurately predict the useful life of the intangible assets, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets. Such write-offs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. In order to achieve our objectives, we hire from time to time software, administrative, operational, sales, and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training, and successfully integrating qualified personnel can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. Such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As part of our expansion strategy, we developed offshore development centers in Romania and Russia. We hired professional consultants for these development centers, leveraging the lower employer costs that existed in these countries. In recent years, professional work in these countries became more expensive and professional fees may continue to increase in the future. As a result, in February 2013, we closed our offshore center in Russia. The establishment of additional offshore facilities, if that occurs, may result in significant capital expenses, which may affect our cash position. We cannot assure you that our offshore facilities will continue to be cost effective. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified professional employees worldwide at competitive prices. 11 If our plans to continue and reduce the number of employees do not achieve the anticipated results or causes undesirable consequences our operating results may be harmed. In January 2014, we continued our cost saving plan by reducing our headcount, which resulted in a reduction of approximately 27 additional full-time positions. The continued reduction in the number of employees may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the reduction in workforce to seek alternate employment. Additional attrition could impede our ability to meet our operational goals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, as a result of the reductions in our workforce, we may face an increased risk of employment litigation. Furthermore, employees whose positions will be eliminated in connection with these trends may seek future employment with our competitors. Although all our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional reduction activities, that any of our efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or any future reduction plans. In addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to any new growth or revenue opportunities. If our technology or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our modernization solutions, the project team conducts testing to detect the existence of failures, errors, and bugs. If our modernization solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our technology, we may incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem. The consequences of failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, we may be required to pay penalties, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of damages claims. In the event that we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations from the results of the implementation of our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, these customers may suffer damages. When and if this occurs, we may be required under the customer agreement to pay penalties to our customers or pay their expenses (as has occurred in the past) and our customers may have the ability to cancel our contracts. Payments of penalties or a cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages. In addition, we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to claims as a result of not delivering our products on time or in a satisfactory manner. Such disputes or others may lead to material damages. We are exposed to significant claims for damage caused to our customers’ information systems. Some of the solutions we provide involve key aspects of our customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. If a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of modernization solutions or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our modernization solutions, we are exposed to the risk of a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We cannot guarantee that the limitations of liability under our product and service contracts, if any, would be sufficient to protect us against legal claims. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. If third parties assert claims of intellectual property infringement against us, we may, regardless of actual merits or success of any claims, suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention, which could harm our business. 12 Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the global software industry. Software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us. In addition, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties. A breach of the nondisclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim, if submitted, may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience greater than expected competition that could have a negative effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive market. Competition in the modernization field is, to a large extent, based upon the functionality of the available solutions. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sales of their technology and services, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to emerging opportunities and changes in technology or customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase such competitors’ ability to successfully market their technology and services. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. As we develop new solutions, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. Our competitors include: · small vendors who provide specific solutions for a particular area of modernization, such as Ateras, Anubex, Migrationware, HTWC, Fresche Legacy, Innowake, Software Mining and MSS International; · large system integrators such as IBM, HP, Dell, Accenture, Cognizant and Capgemini, some of whom we also partner with; · independent software vendors such as Rocket Software, Micro Focus and Metaware; and · Indian system integrators such as TCS, WIPRO, Infosys and Patni. We may be unable to differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors, or successfully develop and introduce new solutions that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have or acquire more extensive development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our customers or prospective customers will not result in price reductions for our solutions, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our employees and contractors have direct access to our technology. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Intellectual property laws only provide limited protection and policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. 13 Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place, in escrow, the source code of certain software. Under the escrow arrangements, the software may, in specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time to time, we also provide our software directly to customers. These factors may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Risks Related to International Operations Marketing our solutions in international markets may cause increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We have international operations, which require significant management attention and financial resources. Depending on market conditions, we may consider establishing additional marketing and sales operations, hire additional personnel, and recruit additional resellers internationally. Risks inherent in our worldwide business activities generally include: · currency exchange fluctuations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · costs of localizing products for foreign countries; · difficulties in operation of management; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of local legislation. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Inflation, devaluation, and fluctuation of various currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities, and assets. Since we operate in several countries, we are impacted by inflation, deflation, devaluation and fluctuation of various currencies. We enter into transactions with customers and suppliers in local currencies, while the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements and the functional currency of our business is the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in countries where we operate can adversely affect the reflection of these activities in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, fluctuations in the value of our non-dollar revenues, costs, and expenses measured in dollars could materially affect our results of operations, and our balance sheet reflects non-dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. Consequently, we are exposed to risks related to changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency values affect the prices of our products and services, which in turn may affect our business and results of operations. Most of our worldwide sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, British pounds and euros while our reporting currency is the dollar. A decrease in the value of the dollar relative to these foreign currencies would make our products more expensive and increase our operating costs and, therefore, could adversely affect our results and harm our competitive position in the markets in which we compete. 14 We are subject to multiple taxing jurisdictions. If we fail to estimate accurately the amount of income tax due in any of these jurisdictions, our net income will be adversely affected. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to taxation by these jurisdictions at various tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We cannot assure you that the final tax outcome of these issues will not be different from management estimates, which are reflected in our income tax provisions. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such outcome occurs. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries, as well as incidents of terror activities and other hostilities. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel could directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by hostilities involving Israel, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Any on-going or future armed conflicts, terror activities, tension along the Israeli borders or political instability in the region could disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business and could harm our results of operations. Political relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Traded Securities If we fail to comply with the minimum bid price requirement or any other minimum requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our shares may be delisted. In the past, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Global Market notifying us that we failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). Following the receipt of such letter, on December 28, 2011, we executed a one-for-four reverse split of our ordinary shares, which resulted in an increase of the par value per ordinary share from NIS 0.01 to NIS 0.04, following which we regained compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. The closing bid price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market, as of March 21, 2014 was $4.40. In September 2012, we received an additional letter from NASDAQ Global Market advising us that according to the Form 6-K filed by us for the period ended June 30, 2012, our shareholder equity fell below the minimum $10 million requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(1)(A) for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. During the third quarter of 2012, we regained compliance with the shareholder equity minimum requirement. As of December 31, 2013 our shareholders equity was $14.3 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with The NASDAQ Global Market minimum requirements. If we fail to comply with those requirements within the required period, and we shall not be able to take sufficient steps to regain compliance, our shares may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could reduce the liquidity of, and have an adverse effect on the price of, our ordinary shares. 15 The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may be extremely volatile and our shareholders may not be able to resell the shares at or above the price they paid, or at all. During the past years, the closing price of our ordinary shares experienced price and volume fluctuations. The high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares traded on the NASDAQ Global Market during each of the last two years are summarized in the table below: High Low 2013 $ 4.80 $ 3.46 2012 $ 4.29 $ 1.25 As of March 21, 2014, the market price of our ordinary shares was $4.40. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will return to previous levels. The market price of our ordinary shares may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · impairments of our intangible assets; · our continued operating losses and negative cash flows; · our inability to secure funding; · any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly revenues and operating results; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · adverse consequences of litigation; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors; · the introduction or market acceptance of new products or service offerings by us or by our competitors; · changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; · changes in accounting principles; · sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and · the loss of any of our key personnel. Future sales of our shares to be registered for resale in the public market could dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall. As of December 31, 2013, we had 11,404,460 ordinary shares outstanding and 1,047,901 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our employee equity compensation plans, including 688,429 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding employee options, warrants and unvested restricted stock units. As of such date, we also had the following commitments to issue our ordinary shares: · 102,343 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued by us to institutional investors in connection with the private placement consummated in October 2009; and · Up to 1,042,523 ordinary shares that may be issued to the investors in connection with certain anti-dilution rights granted in connection with the private placement consummated in November 2013. We registered for resale the shares underlying the warrants issued to the institutional investors in October 2009, pursuant to registration rights agreements entered into with such investors. In addition, we have committed to register for resale up to an additional 1,042,523 ordinary shares that may be issued to the investors in connection with certain anti-dilution rights. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” The exercise of options by employees and office holders, vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees and office holders, exercise of warrants by investors and conversion of loans to equity would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options, warrants or conversion rights, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If a large number of our ordinary shares is sold in a short period, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decrease. 16 Our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Generally, a foreign corporation is a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if (i) 75% or more of its gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of its assets for the taxable year that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income is at least 50%. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. Passive assets include working capital, including cash raised in public offerings. If we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse tax consequences, including being taxed at ordinary income tax rates and being subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. Because we expect to hold a substantial amount of cash or cash equivalents, and because the calculation of the value of our assets may be based in part on the value of our ordinary shares, which may fluctuate and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies historically often have been volatile, we may be a PFIC in 2014 or in a subsequent year. As of January 1, 2014, we are required to report as a U.S. domestic issuer which could result in additional costs and expenses to us. In addition, the benefits available to us as a “foreign private issuer” are no longer available. Whereas more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities are owned by residents of the United States and a majority of our executive officers and directors are U.S. citizens or residents, we began, as of January 1, 2014, to modify our disclosure and reporting to comply with the requirements for domestic U.S. companies. As a result: · we are required to report on forms that are applicable to U.S. companies, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, rather than the forms formerly used us, such as Forms 20-F and 6-K; · we are required to include substantially more information in proxy statements than previously provided; and · if we engage in capital raising activities, there is a higher likelihood that investors may require us to file resale registration statements with the SEC as a condition to any such financing. We expect that complying with these additional requirements would increase our legal and audit fees which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of being considered a “domestic issuer” for reporting and disclosure requirements: · we are no longer exempt from certain of the provisions of U.S. securities laws such as, Regulation FD, exemptions for filing beneficial ownership reports under Section 16(a) for executive officers, directors, and 10% shareholders (Forms 3, 4, and 5), and the Section 16(b) short swing profit rules; and · we have lost the ability to reply upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. Our three largest shareholders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Based on information filed by our three largest shareholders with the Securities and Exchange Commission as of December 31, 2013, our three largest shareholders, Columbia Pacific Opportunity Fund, LP and affiliated entities, Prescott Group Capital Management, LLC and affiliated entities, and Lake Union Capital Management, LLC and affiliated entities, beneficially owned approximately 37.7%, 28.9% and 17.3%, respectively, of our ordinary shares. Based on this information, we estimate that these shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 83.5% of our ordinary shares as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (assuming no additional ordinary shares to prevent anti-dilution are issued related to such ordinary shares). As a result, our three largest shareholders are able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders may have interests that differ from yours, and they may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 