ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements concerning our future products, product candidates, development plans, expenses, revenues, liquidity and cash needs, as well as our commercialization plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations 18 Table of Contents and we assume no obligation to update this information. Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and do not have any commercial products that generate significant revenue. We have experienced significant net losses in each year since our inception. Our accumulated deficit was $227.9 million as of December 31, 2007. To date, our revenue has resulted from collaboration agreements, services and license fees from customers of Dynavax Europe, and government and private agency grants. The grants are subject to annual review based on the achievement of milestones and other factors and are scheduled to terminate in 2009. We anticipate that we will incur substantial additional net losses for the foreseeable future as a result of our investment in research and development activities. We do not have any products that generate significant revenue. Clinical trials for certain of our product candidates are ongoing. These and our other product candidates may never be commercialized, and we may never achieve profitability. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon: • demonstrating in clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective, in particular, in the current and planned trials for our product candidates; • obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates; and • entering into and maintaining successful collaborative relationships. If we are unable to generate significant revenues or achieve profitability, we may be required to reduce or discontinue our current and planned operations or raise additional capital on less favorable terms. If we are unable to secure additional funding, we will have to reduce or discontinue operations. We believe our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for at least the next twelve months. Because of the significant time and resources it will take to develop and commercialize our product candidates, we will require substantial additional capital resources in order to continue our operations, and any such funding may not allow us to continue operations as currently planned. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our operations, and any change in plans may increase these outlays and expenditures. We may be unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all and we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate some or all of our programs, or discontinue our operations. The success of our TLR9 product candidates depends on achieving successful clinical results and regulatory approval. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals could require us to discontinue operations. None of our TLR9 product candidates have been approved for sale. Any product candidate we develop is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory agencies. Our success is primarily dependent on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our most advanced TLR9 product candidates. Approval processes in the United States and in other countries are uncertain, take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. We will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that a product candidate is safe and effective before we can obtain the necessary approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. If we identify any safety issues associated with our product candidates, we may be restricted from initiating further trials for those products. Moreover, we may not see sufficient signs of efficacy in those studies. The FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may require us to conduct additional clinical trials prior to approval. For example, we recently announced a clinical hold by the FDA on two Investigational New Drug (IND) applications for HEPLISAV due to a serious adverse event (SAE) in a Phase 3 study. Pending further investigation and resolution satisfactory to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, there can be no assurance that HEPLISAV can be further developed, or even 19 Table of Contents if further development is permitted, that successful clinical development can occur in a timely manner or without significant additional studies or patient data. Many new drug candidates, including many drug candidates that have completed Phase 3 clinical trials, have shown promising results in early clinical trials and subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approval. Despite the time and money expended, regulatory approvals are uncertain. Failure to successfully complete clinical trials and show that our products are safe and effective would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our clinical trials may be extended, suspended, delayed or terminated at any time. Even short delays in the commencement and progress of our trials may lead to substantial delays in the regulatory approval process for our product candidates, which will impair our ability to generate revenues. We may extend, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including regulatory actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, actions by institutional review boards, failure to comply with good clinical practice requirements, concerns regarding health risks to test subjects or inadequate supply of the product candidate. In addition, our ability to conduct clinical trials for some of our product candidates is limited due to the seasonal nature. Even a small delay in a trial for any product candidate could require us to delay commencement of the trial until the target population is available for testing, which could result in a delay of an entire year. Our registration and commercial timelines depend on results of the current and planned clinical trials and further discussions with the FDA. Any extension, suspension, termination or unanticipated delays of our clinical trials could: • adversely affect our ability to timely and successfully commercialize or market these product candidates; • result in significant additional costs; • potentially diminish any competitive advantages for those products; • adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborations, receive milestone payments or royalties from potential collaborators; • cause us to abandon the development of the affected product candidate; or • limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA and foreign regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates are likely to contain requirements for post-marketing follow-up studies, which may be costly. Product approvals, once granted, may be modified based on data from subsequent studies or long-term use. As a result, limitations on labeling indications or marketing claims, or withdrawal from the market may be required if problems occur after commercialization. In addition, we or our contract manufacturers will be required to adhere to federal regulations setting forth current good manufacturing practice. The regulations require that our product candidates be manufactured and our records maintained in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control activities. Furthermore, we or our contract manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies before obtaining marketing approval and will be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. Further, to the extent that we contract with third parties for the manufacture of our products, our ability to control third-party compliance with FDA requirements will be limited to contractual remedies and rights of inspection. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could prevent or delay marketing approval or require the expenditure of money or other resources to correct. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may also 20 Table of Contents result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications and criminal prosecution, any of which could be harmful to our ability to generate revenues and our stock price. Our most advanced product candidates in clinical trials rely on a single lead ISS compound, 1018 ISS, and most of our earlier stage programs rely on ISS-based technology. Serious adverse safety data relating to either 1018 ISS or other ISS-based technology may require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our operations. Our most advanced product candidates in clinical trials are based on our 1018 ISS compound, and substantially all of our research and development programs use ISS-based technology. If any of our product candidates in clinical trials produce serious adverse safety data, we may be required to delay or discontinue all of our clinical trials. In addition, as all of our clinical product candidates contain ISS, a common safety risk across therapeutic areas may hinder our ability to enter into potential collaborations and if adverse safety data are found to apply to our ISS-based technology as a whole, we may be required to significantly reduce or discontinue our operations. We rely on third parties and our facility in Düsseldorf, Germany to supply materials necessary to manufacture our clinical product candidates for our clinical trials and for fulfilling our manufacturing obligations under our collaboration with Merck. Loss of these suppliers or key employees in Düsseldorf, or failure to timely replace them may delay our clinical trials and research and development efforts and may result in additional costs, delays or significantly higher costs in manufacturing our product candidates or breach of our obligations under our Merck collaboration. We rely on a number of third parties and our facility in Düsseldorf for the multiple steps involved in the manufacturing process of our product candidates, including, for example, ISS, a key component material that is necessary for our product candidates, the combination of the antigens and ISS, and the fill and finish. Termination or interruption of these relationships may occur due to circumstances that are outside of our control, resulting in higher cost or delays in our product development efforts. We and these third parties are required to comply with applicable FDA current good manufacturing practice regulations and other international regulatory requirements. If one of these parties fails to maintain compliance with these regulations, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Additionally, these third parties and our manufacturing facility must undergo a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain marketing authorization for any of our product candidates. We have relied on a single supplier to produce our ISS for clinical trials. To date, we have manufactured only small quantities of ISS ourselves for research purposes. If we were unable to maintain or replace our existing source for ISS, we would have to establish internal ISS manufacturing capability which would result in increased capital and operating costs and delays in developing and commercializing our product candidates. We or other third parties may not be able to produce ISS at a cost, quantity and quality that are available from our current third-party supplier. We currently utilize our facility in Düsseldorf to manufacture the hepatitis B surface antigen for HEPLISAV, which is part of our collaboration with Merck & Co., Inc, or Merck. We are obligated to manufacture, on behalf of Merck, HEPLISAV for clinical development and commercial quantities of hepatitis B surface antigen until such time as we can effect the appropriate technology transfer to Merck. Accordingly, we will have to allocate the entire capacity of our Düsseldorf facility to meet our obligations under the Merck collaboration. Moreover, in order to meet our commercial supply obligations to Merck, we expect to have to establish commercial-scale manufacturing capability for HEPLISAV, which will involve increased capital and operating costs and the assumption of risks associated with the construction, validation and operation of a new commercial manufacturing facility as well as the continued operation of our existing facility. There can be no assurance that we can successfully meet our supply obligations to Merck and maintain our internal product candidate timelines and, if we undertake the establishment of a new commercial manufacturing facility, that we can finance the capital costs and ongoing expenses that we would need to undertake until or if HEPLISAV 21 Table of Contents achieves commercial success. There also can be no assurance that the cost of meeting our supply obligation to Merck will be covered by the negotiated supply price. We rely on contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not fulfill their contractual obligations or meet expected deadlines, our planned clinical trials may be delayed and we may fail to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform their obligations or meet expected deadlines our planned clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. Any extension, delay or termination of our clinical trials would delay our ability to commercialize our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. If any products we develop are not accepted by the market or if regulatory agencies limit our labeling indications or marketing claims, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates and are able to successfully commercialize them, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The FDA or other regulatory agencies could limit the labeling indication for which our product candidates may be marketed or could otherwise limit marketing efforts for our products. If we are unable to successfully market any approved product candidates, or marketing efforts are restricted by regulatory limits, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly impaired. A key part of our business strategy is to establish collaborative relationships to commercialize and fund development of our product candidates. We may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships, which may significantly limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products successfully, if at all. We will need to establish collaborative relationships to obtain domestic and international sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our product candidates. We also intend to enter into collaborative relationships to provide funding to support our research and development programs. The process of establishing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Moreover, even if we do establish collaborative relationships, our collaborators may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons. If any collaborator fails to fulfill its responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated, or it may be necessary for us to assume responsibility for expenses or activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. If we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of capital. In October 2007, we entered into a collaborative arrangement with Merck in which we and Merck will further develop and commercialize HEPLISAV. Pursuant to the terms of the collaboration, we are obligated to complete ongoing clinical studies, manufacture and supply on behalf of Merck, and conduct technology transfer with respect to our existing HEPLISAV development program. Although we will be reimbursed for specified development efforts and the delivery of clinical material to Merck in the further development and commercialization of HEPLISAV, Merck controls the development and commercialization plans and timelines for the product. We recently announced that two IND applications for HEPLISAV have been placed on clinical hold by the FDA due to a SAE. As a result of the clinical hold, there can be no assurance that HEPLISAV can continue in further development. Merck may terminate the arrangement upon written notice to us, and there can be no assurance that Merck will continue the collaboration regardless of whether or not the clinical hold by the FDA is released. Moreover, even if the collaboration continues, we may not successfully and timely fulfill our obligations under the collaboration, Merck may develop or market a potentially competitive product, or HEPLISAV, even if successfully developed, may not achieve commercial success sufficient for us to achieve all of the milestones and royalties contemplated under the collaborative arrangement. 22 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and expertise than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete with existing or potential competitors despite these disadvantages we may be unable to generate revenues and our business will be harmed. We compete with pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic institutions and research organizations, in developing therapies to treat or prevent infectious diseases, allergy, asthma and cancer, as well as those focusing more generally on the immune system. Competitors may develop more effective, more affordable or more convenient products or may achieve earlier patent protection or commercialization of their products. These competitive products may render our product candidates obsolete or limit our ability to generate revenues from our product candidates. Many of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do. Existing and potential competitors may also compete with us for qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as for technology that would be advantageous to our business. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may not be able to obtain financing, enter into collaborative arrangements, sell our product candidates or generate revenues. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees would affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates and achieve our objectives. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Dino Dina. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. Our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential scientific personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as for the establishment of collaborations with other companies. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. We may develop, seek regulatory approval for and market our product candidates outside the United States, requiring a significant commitment of resources. Failure to successfully manage our international operations could result in significant unanticipated costs and delays in regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates. We may introduce certain of our product candidates in various markets outside the United States. Developing, seeking regulatory approval for and marketing our product candidates outside the United States could impose substantial burdens on our resources and divert management’s attention from domestic operations. International operations are subject to risk, including: • the difficulty of managing geographically distant operations, including recruiting and retaining qualified employees, locating adequate facilities and establishing useful business support relationships in the local community; • compliance with varying international regulatory requirements, laws and treaties; • securing international distribution, marketing and sales capabilities; • adequate protection of our intellectual property rights; • legal uncertainties and potential timing delays associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers; • adverse tax consequences; 23 Table of Contents • the fluctuation of conversion rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; and • regional and geopolitical risks. If we are unable to successfully manage our international operations, we may incur significant unanticipated costs and delays in regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, which would impair our ability to generate revenues. We rely on our licenses from the Regents of the University of California. Impairment of these licenses or our inability to maintain them would severely harm our business. Our current research and development efforts depend upon our license arrangements with the Regents of the University of California, or UC. Our dependence on these licenses subjects us to numerous risks, such as disputes regarding the creation or use of intellectual property by us and UC, or scientific collaborators. Additionally, our agreements with UC generally contain diligence or milestone-based termination provisions. Our failure to meet any obligations pursuant to these provisions could allow UC to terminate our agreements or convert exclusive to non-exclusive licenses. In addition, our license agreements with UC may be terminated or may expire by their terms, and we may not be able to maintain the exclusivity of these licenses. If we cannot maintain licenses that are advantageous or necessary to the development or the commercialization of our product candidates, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to develop or license similar technology. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights, or we may be required to enter into litigation to enforce patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope or validity of our or another party’s proprietary rights, including a challenge as to the validity of our issued and pending claims. We are involved in various interference and other administrative proceedings related to our intellectual property which has caused us to incur certain legal expenses. If we become involved in any litigation and/or other significant interference proceedings related to our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others, we will incur substantial additional expenses and it will divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. If we or our collaborators are unsuccessful in defending or prosecuting our issued and pending claims or in defending potential claims against our products, for example, as may arise in the commercialization of HEPLISAV or any similar product candidate in the United States, we or our collaborator could be required to pay substantial damages or be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies without a license from such third party. A license may require the payment of substantial fees or royalties, require a grant of a cross-license to our technology or may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may be required to redesign our technology so it does not infringe a third party’s patents, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. Any of these outcomes could require us to change our business strategy and could materially impact our business and operations. One of our potential competitors, Pfizer, has issued U.S. patent claims, as well as patent claims pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, that may be asserted against our ISS products. We may need to obtain a license to one or more of these patent claims held by Pfizer by paying fees or royalties or offering rights to our own proprietary technologies in order to commercialize one or more of our formulations of ISS in the U.S. other than with respect to HEPLISAV. Such a license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, which could preclude or limit our ability to commercialize our products. 24 Table of Contents If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property is inadequate, the value of our product candidates will decrease. Our success depends on our ability to: • obtain and protect commercially valuable patents or the rights to patents both domestically and abroad; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from successfully challenging or infringing our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use only to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary rights by filing and prosecuting United States and foreign patent applications. However, in certain cases such protection may be limited, depending in part on existing patents held by third parties, which may only allow us to obtain relatively narrow patent protection. In the United States, legal standards relating to the validity and scope of patent claims in the biopharmaceutical field can be highly uncertain, are still evolving and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. The biopharmaceutical patent environment outside the United States is even more uncertain. We may be particularly affected by this uncertainty since several of our product candidates may initially address market opportunities outside the United States, where we may only be able to obtain limited patent protection. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • we might not receive an issued patent for any of our patent applications or for any patent applications that we have exclusively licensed; • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection or may not be valid or enforceable; • we might not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a competitive advantage; • patents issued to other parties may limit our intellectual property protection or harm our ability to do business; • other parties may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we attempt to patent; and • other parties may design around technologies we have licensed, patented or developed. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable and for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce. We cannot be certain that we will be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. Any disclosure of confidential data in the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets. If we are unable to adequately obtain or enforce proprietary rights we may be unable to commercialize our products, enter into collaborations, generate revenues or maintain any advantage we may have with respect to existing or potential competitors. Our TLR9 allergy program, including the development of TOLAMBA, relies on debt funding that is accessible only on the achievement of specified development milestones. We may not be able to achieve the milestones in a timely manner and as a result may not receive or have access to sufficient funding to continue further development of TOLAMBA. Even if we achieve such milestones, we will be obligated to 25 Table of Contents repay up to $30 million in July 2010 and we may not have sufficient funds to pay such amounts upon maturity. In July 2007, we entered into a funding arrangement with Deerfield management, or Deerfield, to support our further development of our allergy product programs, including TOLAMBA. Our continued access to the funding is dependent upon our successful achievement of specified milestones in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that TOLAMBA will be entered into planned clinical studies or successfully achieve the planned end points, and failure to successfully further develop TOLAMBA according to our current clinical plans may result in the termination of further development efforts. Moreover, even if we achieve the planned clinical results, we will be required to issue additional warrants to purchase up to 2,000,000 shares of our Common Stock and repay outstanding loans to the Deerfield. We may be required to enter into a financing arrangement or license arrangement with one or more third parties, or some combination of these in order to repay the loan at maturity. There can be no assurance that any financing or licensing arrangement will be available or even if available, that the terms would be favorable to us and our stockholders. We have licensed some of our development and commercialization rights to certain of our development programs in connection with our Symphony Dynamo funding arrangement and will not receive any future royalties or revenues with respect to this intellectual property unless we exercise an option to repurchase some or all of the programs in the future. We may not obtain sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise our option prior to the expiration of the development period, and even if we decide to exercise, we may not have the financial resources to exercise our option in a timely manner. In April 2006, we granted an exclusive license to the intellectual property for certain ISS compounds for cancer, hepatitis B and hepatitis C therapeutics (Development Programs) to Symphony Dynamo, Inc. (SDI) in consideration for a commitment from Symphony Capital Partners, LP and certain of its affiliates (Symphony) to provide $50.0 million of capital to advance the Development Programs. As part of the arrangement, we received an exclusive purchase option (Purchase Option) to acquire all of the Development Programs through the purchase of all of the equity in SDI during the five-year term at specified prices ranging from $74.7 to $144.1 million. The Purchase Option exercise price is payable in cash or a combination of cash and shares of Dynavax common stock, at our sole discretion. We also received an exclusive option to purchase either the hepatitis B or hepatitis C program (Program Option) during the first year of the arrangement. In April 2007, we exercised our Program Option for the hepatitis B program. The exercise of this Program Option triggered a payment obligation of $15.0 million which will either be (a) due to Symphony upon the expiration of the SDI collaboration in 2011 if the Purchase Option is not exercised; or (b) included as part of the applicable purchase price upon exercise of the Purchase Option. The intellectual property rights to the remaining cancer and hepatitis C therapy programs not purchased through the exercise of the Purchase Option will remain with SDI. We and SDI jointly manage the Development Programs and there can be no assurance that we will agree on various decisions that will enable us to successfully develop the potential products, or even if we are in agreement on the development plans, that the development efforts will result in sufficient clinical data to make a fully informed decision with respect to the exercise of our Purchase Option. If we do not exercise the Purchase Option prior to its expiration, then our rights in and with respect to the Development Programs will terminate and we will no longer have rights to any of the programs licensed to SDI under the arrangement. If we elect to exercise the Purchase Option, we will be required to make a substantial payment of at least $74.7 million, increasing thereafter quarterly, which at our discretion may be paid partially in shares of our common stock. As a result, in order to exercise the Purchase Option, we will be required to make a substantial payment of cash and possibly issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock. We do not currently have the resources to exercise the Purchase Option and we may be required to enter into a financing arrangement or license arrangement with one or more third parties, or some combination of these in order to exercise the Purchase Option, even if we paid a portion of the purchase price with our common stock. There can be no assurance that any financing or licensing arrangement will be available or even if available, that the terms would be favorable to us and our stockholders. 26 Table of Contents We face product liability exposure, which, if not covered by insurance, could result in significant financial liability. While we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products will subject us to potential product liability claims and may raise questions about a product’s safety and efficacy. As a result, we could experience a delay in our ability to commercialize one or more of our product candidates or reduced sales of any approved product candidates. In addition, a product liability claim may exceed the limits of our insurance policies and exhaust our internal resources. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $1 million for each occurrence for clinical trials with umbrella coverage of an additional $4 million. This coverage may not be adequate or may not continue to be available in sufficient amounts, at an acceptable cost or at all. We also may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future. A product liability claim, product recalls or other claims, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, would divert our management’s attention from our business and could result in significant financial liability. We face uncertainty related to coverage, pricing and reimbursement and the practices of third party payors, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our product candidates on commercially reasonable terms. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to achieve profitability will depend in part on the negotiation of a favorable price or the availability of appropriate reimbursement from third party payors. Existing laws affecting the pricing and coverage of pharmaceuticals and other medical products by government programs and other third party payors may change before any of our product candidates are approved for marketing. In addition, third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Because we intend to offer products, if approved, that involve new technologies and new approaches to treating disease, the willingness of third party payors to reimburse for our products is particularly uncertain. We will have to charge a price for our products that is sufficiently high to enable us to recover our considerable investment in product development. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to achieve profitability and could harm our future prospects and reduce our stock price. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims or liabilities relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly to resolve. Our research and product development activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. We are currently in compliance with all government permits that are required for the storage, use and disposal of these materials. However, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to persons or property from these materials. In the event of an accident related to hazardous materials, we could be held liable for damages, cleanup costs or penalized with fines, and this liability could exceed the limits of our insurance policies and exhaust our internal resources. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Our stock price is subject to volatility, and your investment may suffer a decline in value. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical companies have in the past been, and are likely to continue in the future to be, very volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to substantial volatility depending upon many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • progress or results of any of our clinical trials or regulatory efforts, in particular any announcements regarding the progress or results of our planned trials; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates; 27 Table of Contents • our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations; • technological innovations, new commercial products or drug discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us or our competitors; • changes in our intellectual property portfolio or developments or disputes concerning the proprietary rights of our products or product candidates; • our ability to obtain component materials and successfully enter into manufacturing relationships for our product candidates or establish manufacturing capacity on our own; • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborations; • maintenance of our existing exclusive licensing agreements with the Regents of the University of California; • changes in government regulations, general economic conditions, industry announcements; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; and • volume of trading in our common stock One or more of these factors could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because we have experienced greater than average stock price volatility, as have other biotechnology companies in recent years. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business, operating results and financial conditions. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting or other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock with voting rights to be determined by the Board of Directors; • limiting the persons who can call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; • creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three year terms; • providing that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required for amendment to certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. 28 Table of Contents We will continue to implement additional financial and accounting systems, procedures or controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements may increase our costs and require additional management resources. We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to comply with new reporting requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a favorable assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to reach an unqualified assessment, or our independent auditors are unable to issue an unqualified attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting which could harm our business and could impact the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 