D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our liquidity. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially harmed. In that event, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Inthe past few years, we have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. As a result, we suffer from low liquidity. If these trends continue, and we shall not be able to obtain adequate financing, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affect. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in the past. We have had net losses of $38.2 million, $32.4 million and $11.4 million, in 2010, 2011, and 2012. Our negative cash flows from operations have gone from $7.6 million in 2010 to $8.4 million in 2011 and to $4.3 million in 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 million as of December 31, 2011. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future, that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred, that we shall be able to improve our liquidity or that we will be able to find alternative financing if necessary. If these trends continue, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a credit facility with one bank. There is no assurance that this credit facility will be available in the future or that we will be able to obtain financing from other entities. In the past, we had several credit facilities with banks. Following the repayment of substantially all of our loans to the banks, we currently maintain only one credit facility. If we continue incurring significant losses and negative cash flows, as we had in the past few years, we may be required to raise funds or obtain alternative financing in order to finance our operations. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available, either from our shareholders or financing entities. The banks usually require as a condition to providing financing, compliance with covenants regarding our maintenance of certain financial ratios. In addition, those covenants may include restrictions on the operation of our business, including, among other things, our ability to pledge our assets, dispose of assets, issue certain securities, make loans or give guarantees, make certain acquisitions, and engage in mergers or consolidations. In 2011 (as previously occurred in 2010), we failed to meet some of the covenants included in our credit facilities. Following negotiations with the banks, we have restructured the terms of the loans and signed revised agreements with the banks. Our ability to obtain financing, when required, depends in part on the future performance of our business and the condition of the capital markets. We cannot assure you that we shall be able to maintain our outstanding credit facility or negotiate new credit facilities with the banks on favorable terms to us. 4 If we do not reach agreements with the banks, when required, we would encounter difficulties in funding our operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to raise cash or obtain financing from other third parties, including our shareholders. Moreover, even if we succeed in negotiating financing arrangements with third parties, we cannot assure you that the terms of such arrangements would be favorable to us or advantageous to our existing shareholders. Raising money to finance our operations involves, from time to time, issuance of equity securities which may dilute your holdings in our company. In order to finance our operations, we may borrow money from to time from our shareholders or other third parties. Our arrangements with any such parties may include the issuance of equity or debt securities or conversion options of loans and interest accrued thereon into equity securities. For example, in 2012, we entered into a series of transactions with our three major shareholders, which included conversion options of the loans extended to us by the three shareholders, into ordinary shares. The issuance of equity securities to lenders, in such case, would dilute your holdings in our company. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions and decreases in capital expenditures by our customers have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our revenue is dependent upon the strength of the worldwide economy. In particular, we depend upon our customers making continuing capital investments in information technology products, such as those marketed and sold by us. These spending levels are impacted by the worldwide level of demand for enterprise legacy IT modernization solutions and services. Demand for these is normally a function of prevailing global or regional economic conditions and is negatively affected by a general economic slow-down as consumers reduce discretionary spending on information technology upgrades. Our results were also affected by the declines in the financial services industry. In 2011 and 2012, approximately 42% and 16% of our revenues, respectively, were derived from the financial services industry. We believe that the financial services industry continues to be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions. Although there have been indications that the economy may be improving in many areas, this has not resulted in an increase in purchases by our customers. Our revenues decreased significantly from $42.0 million in 2010 to $21.5 million in 2011 and to $10.6 million in 2012. We have identified and continue to experience, from time to time, delays in purchase order placement by our customers and longer sales cycles. We believe that the significant downturn in the economy caused our customers to react by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. The negotiation process with our customers has developed into a lengthy and expensive process. In addition, many of our customers have delayed or cancelled information technology projects. Customers with excess information technology resources have chosen and may continue to choose to develop in-house software solutions rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, we anticipate that our low liquidity and financial condition may negatively impact the willingness of customers to place purchase orders with us. 5 We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or any subsequent recovery. If the conditions in the markets in which we operate remain the same or worsen from present levels, or if customers are dissuaded to contract us due to our financial condition, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We had negative cash flows from operations in 2011 and 2012 which, if we are not successful in increasing our revenues or reducing our expense level, may continue. We had negative operating cash flows of $8.4 million in 2011 and $4.3 million in 2012. The change in operating cash flow in 2012 compared to 2011 is primarily attributable to the significant decrease in our operating loss following the completion of the implementation of our cost saving plan. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2011 and 2012, we continued during these years to reduce our workforce. However, due to severance and other termination costs, our labor costs were not reduced commensurate with our reduction in revenues and we continued to have a negative cash flow in 2012. As labor costs constitute a substantial portion of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, and as a result of the decrease in the amount of receivables that are subject to sale of receivables agreements, we incurred significant losses and negative cash flow in 2011 and 2012. In the second quarter of 2012, we completed the sale of our knowledge management business and we sold our 51% shareholdings in Liacom Systems Ltd. In November 2012, we initiated the sale of the business of BridgeQuest, which was completed in February 2013. These dispositions, together with the cost saving plan conducted in 2010 through the first quarter of 2012, are intended to set our expenses at a level commensurate with expected revenue levels. There can be no assurance, however, that such plans will result in reduced expense levels commensurate with our reduced level of revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of customers, generally, and in particular the loss of a significant customer or several customers that, together, account for a significant portion of our revenues, could cause a reduction in our revenues and profitability, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not know if, or for how much longer, our customers will continue to purchase the products and services that we offer. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our current and historical net revenues. The loss of any major customer or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customer could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The loss of several customers at once may impact our revenues and profitability significantly, even if each of those customers, separately, has not accounted for a significant amount of our revenues. The loss of customers may cause a significant decrease in revenues and profitability which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products and solutions as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. 6 A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from one of our majority-owned subsidiaries. Therefore, a significant decrease in revenues of such subsidiary or any other material adverse events affecting such subsidiary, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of our majority-owned subsidiaries contributed a material portion of our revenues in 2012. We do not wholly own this subsidiary, although control it. The minority shareholder also serves as the chief executive officer of the subsidiary and holds a valuable knowledge relating to this subsidiary's technology. A material disagreement between us and the minority shareholder could adversely affect the operations of this subsidiary, which in turn may lead to a decrease in revenues of the subsidiary. A significant decrease in revenues of such subsidiary or any other material adverse events affecting such subsidiary, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to estimate accurately the costs of fixed-price contracts, we may incur losses. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from engagements on a fixed-price basis. We price these commitments based upon estimates of future costs. We bear the risk of faulty estimates and cost overruns in connection with these commitments. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a fixed-price project, to accurately anticipate potential wage increases, or to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we are unable to effectively control our costs while maintaining our customer relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations and, in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships while protecting profitability and cash flow. However, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses due to the ongoing need to maintain our worldwide customer service and support operations and to invest in research and development. In circumstances of reduced overall demand for our products, or if orders received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our fixed cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to economic downturns on a timely basis, or if such implementation has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Based on the continuing decline in revenues in 2011 and 2012, we continued during these years to reduce our workforce. However, due to severance and other termination costs, our labor costs were not reduced commensurate with our reduction in revenues and we continued to have a negative cash flow in 2012. As labor costs constitute a substantial portion of our costs of revenues, selling and administrative expenses and research and development expenses, and as a result of the decrease in the amount of receivables that are subject to sale of receivables agreements, we incurred significant losses and negative cash flow in 2011 and in 2012. 7 Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our IT solutions. If we have too aggressively reduced our costs, we may not have sufficient resources to capture new IT projects, timely comply with project delivery schedules and meet customer demand. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity to capitalize on periods of economic upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The IT modernization business is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and methodologies. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our modernization tools and services. In order to succeed, we need to adapt the tools and services we offer in order to keep up with technological developments and changes in customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in enhancing our tools and services, or developing or acquiring new modernization tools and services that adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. We also cannot assure you that the tools and services we offer will be accepted by customers. If our tools and services are not accepted by customers, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment and customer requirements, and new product introductions by existing or future competitors, could render our existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to enhance our current tools or develop new tools. This may require us to expend significant amounts of money, time, and other resources to meet the demand. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. Furthermore, modernization projects deal with customer mission critical applications, and therefore encapsulate risk for the customer. Therefore, customers are more cautious in entering into transactions with us, and accordingly, the process for approval and signing of deals may be a lengthy and expensive. We make efforts to mitigate such risks associated with legacy modernization projects but from time to time we encounter delays in the negotiation process. We may experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results, which makes it difficult to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations can occur as a result of any of the following events: · global economic trends; · global political trends, in particular, in the middle east and in countries in which we operate; · adverse economic conditions in various geographic areas where our customers and potential customers operate; · acquisitions and dispositions of companies and assets; 8 · timing of completion of specified milestones and delays in implementation; · timing of product releases; · timing of contracts; · changes in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; and · currency fluctuations and financial expenses related to our financial instruments. In particular, we experienced a significant decrease in our revenues during 2010, 2011 and 2012. Such decreases were primarily due to a decline in the number of our customers, mostly in our legacy modernization projects, as well as due to the sale of AppBuilder and subsidiaries. The decline in the number of our customers resulted from the continuing effects of the worldwide economic downturn and uncertainty. As a result of market uncertainty, we identified delays in our customers’ placement of purchase orders and longer sales cycles. In 2012, our revenues decreased to $10.6 million compared to $21.5 million in 2011, largely as a result of these factors, including a continuing decrease in the number of our legacy modernization projects and the sale of certain subsidiaries and activities. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. A delay in collecting our fees could result in cash flow shortages, which in turn may significantly impact our financial results. Typical modernization projects which deploy our solutions are long-term projects. Therefore, payment for these projects or a substantial portion of our fees may be delayed until the successful completion of specified milestones. In addition, the payment of our fees is dependent upon customer acceptance of the completed work and our ability to collect the fees. Further, in light of the global economy downturn, collecting our fees from customers has become increasingly difficult. Although the timing of receipt of our fees varies, we incur the majority of our expenses on a current basis. As a result, a delay in the collection of our fees could result in cash flow shortages. If we are unable to invest in new products and markets or to manage the effects of changes in our offering portfolio, our results will be adversely affected. We specialize in the development and implementation of sophisticated software modernization and porting tools and products. We leverage our know-how, experience, and generic technologies to develop and introduce new software tools that enable the modernization of legacy systems. The need for our modernization solutions changes over time, and recent regulations or newly introduced technologies may create new needs for modernization solutions. In order to maintain our position in the market, and our ability to address the constantly changing needs of the marketplace, we continually invest in the development of new products. Due to a decline in our revenues, we have had to reduce our research and development expenditures. In 2012, our research and development costs decreased to $691,000 from $3.1 million in 2011 and $5.2 million in 2010. These decreases result primarily from a decrease in head count in research and development, as well as the shifting of employees who were engaged in research and development activities to delivery. 9 These reductions, and any future reductions we may be required to make, in research and development may result in our being unable to maintain or increase our market share. Such a failure to maintain market share could result in a further decline in our revenues and operating results. Moreover, if we seek to increase our research and development expenses without a corresponding increase in revenues, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements, in which case our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our failure to invest in new products and markets or to manage the effects of changes in our offering portfolio could result in our loss of market share, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Our results have been adversely affected by the impairment of the value of certain intangible assets, and we may experience impairment charges in the future. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2012, include, among other things, goodwill valued at approximately $12.5 million, technology valued at approximately $27,000 and intangible assets related to customers’ relations valued at approximately $250,000. The applicable accounting standards require that: · goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to an annual impairment test, as well as periodic impairment tests if impairment indicators are present; and · intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The carrying amount of these assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value (usually discounted cash flow) of the impaired asset; In 2011, we performed impairment tests and sold certain assets resulting in a decrease of our goodwill of $22.7 million, of which $9.6 million were identified as impairment loss related to goodwill of our overall assets and $13.1 million were the result of the sale of AppBuilder. These losses were charged to operations. The impairment of our overall assets was due, in part, a reduction in future expected cash flows from these assets and reduction in our market capitalization. In 2012, following an impairment test we performed, no goodwill impairment was identified. If we continue to experience reduced cash flows and our market capitalization falls below the value of our equity, or actual results of operations differ materially from our modeling estimates and related assumptions, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. If our goodwill or intangible assets were deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to our failure to achieve our goals, or if we fail to accurately predict the useful life of the intangible assets, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets. Such write-offs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 10 If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. In order to achieve our objectives, we hire from time to time software, administrative, operational, sales, and technical support personnel. The process of attracting, training, and successfully integrating qualified personnel can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. Such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As part of our expansion strategy, we developed offshore center in Romania and Russia. We hired professional consultants for these development centers, leveraging the lower employer costs that existed in these countries. In recent years, professional work in these countries became more expensive and professional fees may continue to increase in the future. As a result, in November 2012 we announced our intent to sell our offshore center in Russia, which was closed in February 2013. The establishment of additional offshore facilities, if that occurs, may result in significant capital expenses, which may affect our cash position. We cannot assure you that our offshore facilities will continue to be cost effective. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified professional employees worldwide at competitive prices. If our tools or solutions do not function efficiently, we may incur additional expenses. In the course of providing our modernization solutions, the project team conducts testing to detect the existence of failures, errors, and bugs. If our modernization solutions fail to function efficiently or if errors or bugs are detected in our tools, we may incur significant expenditures in an attempt to remedy the problem. The consequences of failures, errors, and bugs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations regarding our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, we may be required to pay penalties, our contracts may be cancelled and we may be the subject of damages claims. In the event that we fail to satisfy our customers’ expectations from the results of the implementation of our solutions, or if we fail to timely deliver our solutions to our customers, these customers may suffer damages. When and if this occurs, we may be required under the customer agreement to pay penalties to our customers or pay their expenses (as occurred in the past) and our customers may have the ability to cancel our contracts. Payments of penalties or a cancellation of a contract could cause us to suffer damages. In addition, we might not be paid for costs that we incurred in performing services prior to the date of cancellation. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to claims as a result of not delivering our products on time or in a satisfactory manner. Such disputes or others may lead to material damages. 11 We are exposed to significant claims for damage caused to our customers’ information systems. Some of the products, tools, and services we provide involve key aspects of our customers’ information systems. These systems are frequently critical to our customers’ operations. As a result, our customers have a greater sensitivity to failures in these systems than do customers of other software products generally. If a customer’s system fails during or following the provision of modernization solutions or services by us, or if we fail to provide customers with proper support for our modernization solutions, we are exposed to the risk of a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. We cannot guarantee that the limitations of liability under our product and service contracts, if any, would be sufficient to protect us against legal claims. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we lose one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the filing of legal claims against us in connection with contract liability may cause us negative publicity and damage to our reputation. If third parties assert claims of intellectual property infringement against us, we may, regardless of actual infringement or success of any claims, suffer substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention, which could harm our business. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the global software industry. Software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us. In addition, our employees and contractors have access to software licensed by us from third parties. A breach of the nondisclosure undertakings by any of our employees or contractors may lead to a claim of infringement against us. Any claim, with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and would probably divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such a claim, if submitted, may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 We may experience greater than expected competition that could have a negative effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive market. Competition in the modernization field is, to a large extent, based upon the functionality of the available automated tools and personnel expertise. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sales of their modernization tools and services, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to emerging opportunities and changes in technology or customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase such competitors’ ability to successfully market their tools and services. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. As we develop new tools and services, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. Our competitors include: · small vendors who provide specific solutions for a particular area of modernization, such as Ateras, Anubex, Migrationware, HTWC, Speedware and Most; · large system integrators such as IBM, HP, Dell, Accenture and Cap Gemini, some of whom we also partner with; · independent software vendors such as Micro Focus and Metaware; and · Indian system integrators such as TCS, WIPRO, Infosys and Patni. We may be unable to differentiate our tools and services from those of our competitors, or successfully develop and introduce new tools and services that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have or acquire more extensive development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our customers or prospective customers will not result in price reductions for our tools and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our employees and contractors have direct access to our technology. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Intellectual property laws only provide limited protection and policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Pursuant to agreements with certain of our customers, we have placed, and in the future may be required to place, in escrow, the source code of certain software. Under the escrow arrangements, the software may, in specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. From time-to-time, we also provide our software directly to customers. These factors may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. 13 If the Ministry of Production in Italy requires the immediate repayment of an outstanding loan received by a subsidiary, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. During 2007, our subsidiary, I-Ter, received an amount of $585,000 from the Ministry of Production in Italy under a plan called Easy4Plan. Approximately $371,000 of that amount is in the form of a 10-year loan payable in equal annual installments until September 2018. The loan bears an annual interest of 0.87% and is linked to the euro. As of December 31, 2012, the remaining loan balance was approximately $210,000. Our subsidiary’s operations have been reduced significantly, which may result in the Ministry of Production in Italy requiring the immediate repayment of the full outstanding loan amount. If this happens, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Risks Relating to International Operations Marketing our tools and solutions in international markets may cause increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We have international operations, which require significant management attention and financial resources. In order to expand worldwide sales, we hired a VP sales and VP marketing which will focus on increasing sales and number of customers. Depending on market conditions, we may consider establishing additional marketing and sales operations, hire additional personnel, and recruit additional resellers internationally. Risks inherent in our worldwide business activities generally include: · currency exchange fluctuations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · costs of localizing products for foreign countries; · difficulties in operations of management; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of local legislation. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Inflation, devaluation, and fluctuation of various currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities, and assets. Since we operate in several countries, we are impacted by inflation, deflation, devaluation and fluctuation of various currencies. We enter into transactions with customers and suppliers in local currencies, while the reporting currency of our consolidated financial statements and the functional currency of our business is the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in countries where we operate can adversely affect the reflection of these activities in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, fluctuations in the value of our non-dollar revenues, costs, and expenses measured in dollars could materially affect our results of operations, and our balance sheet reflects non-dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. 14 Consequently, we are exposed to risks related to changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations of exchange rates, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency values affect the prices of our products and services, which in turn may affect our business and results of operations. Most of our worldwide sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, British pounds and euros while our reporting currency is the dollar. A decrease in the value of the dollar relative to these foreign currencies would make our products more expensive and increase our operating costs and, therefore, could adversely affect our results and harm our competitive position in the markets in which we compete. We are subject to multiple taxing jurisdictions. If we fail to estimate accurately the amount of income tax due in any of these jurisdictions, our net income will be adversely affected. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to taxation by these jurisdictions at various tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. We cannot assure you that the final tax outcome of these issues will not be different from management estimates, which are reflected in our income tax provisions. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such outcome occurs. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Political, economic, and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since 2000, there have been ongoing hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which have adversely affected the peace process and at times have negatively influenced Israel’s economy as well as its relationship with several other countries. The taking of control by Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes against Israelis, of the entire Gaza Strip in 2007, further strained relations between Israelis and the Palestinians. The current political situation between Israel and its neighbors may not improve. The world impact, including the general health of the economy, and more specifically in Israel in connection with the recent political changes in Syria, Egypt, Libya and other Arab countries, is still unknown. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. 15 In addition, nonexempt male adult citizens of Israel, including some of our officers and employees, are obligated to perform military reserve duty until the age of 40 or 45, depending on their function in the army, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. We cannot predict the full impact of such conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Political relations could limit our ability to sell or buy internationally. We could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. There can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business. It may be difficult to serve process and enforce judgments against our directors and executive officers in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Certain of our executive officers and directors are non-residents of the United States, and substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States on us or any of our executive officers or directors who are non-residents of the United States and/or bring an original action in an Israeli court against us or against any of our executive officers or directors to enforce liabilities based upon the United States federal securities laws. It may further be difficult to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States, including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, against us or against any of our executive officers or directors that are non-residents of the United States. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the substance of the applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. As a general rule, Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside Israel which may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us. Subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that certain conditions (including that it was rendered under the laws of the competent court, that it may no longer be appealed, enforceability and that it is not contrary to public policy.) Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if it finds it was obtained by fraud, lack of due process or that at the time suit was filed in the foreign court, the same matter was pending before an Israeli court. 16 If we shall be considered as being engaged in a “trade or business within the United States,“ we shall be subject to U.S. income tax, with respect to our income that is “effectively connected“ with such U.S. trade or business, although we have substantial accumulated losses for tax purpose, and otherwise would not effectively pay income tax. Our company is an Israeli corporation which is subject to Israeli income tax with respect to its operations. However, the majority of our board members are U.S. tax residents. In addition, our chief executive officer is a U.S. citizen and certain general management and control over the business activities of our company is being conducted in the United States. The day-to-day management of our company is currently conducted outside the United States but we may consider in the future conducting certain activities in the United States. We have been advised that if the day-to-day management of our company is determined to be conducted in the United States, we shall be subject to U.S. state and federal income tax as follows: · we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the same graduated rates applicable to a U.S. domestic corporation (i.e., generally up to approximately 35%) with respect to the portion of our income that is “effectively connected” with such U.S. trade or business. A “branch profits” tax, generally an extra income tax imposed by the U.S. on foreign corporations which earn profits from their U.S. investments or U.S. business operations, will also apply; and. · the gain on the sale of assets used or held for use in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business should generally be subject to U.S. state and federal corporate tax, similar to income that is “effectively connected” with a U.S. trade or business. If we become subject to U.S. state and federal corporate tax, we will not be able to offset against our U.S. income our accumulated net operating losses for tax purposes, which losses were approximately $93 million as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we may not be able to offset capital gain upon sale of our assets against our accumulated net operating losses for tax purposes. If this happens, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Traded Securities If we fail to comply with the minimum bid price requirement or any other minimum requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our shares may be delisted. In the past, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Global Market notifying us that we failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). Following the receipt of such letter, on December 28, 2011, we executed a one-for-four reverse split of our ordinary shares, which resulted in an increase of the par value per ordinary share from NIS 0.01 to NIS 0.04, following which we regained compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. The closing bid price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market, as of April 22, 2013, was $3.86. 17 In September 2012, we received an additional letter from NASDAQ Global Market advising us that according to the Form 6-K filed by us for the period ended June 30, 2012, our shareholder equity fell below the minimum $10 million requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(1)(A) for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. During the third quarter of 2012, we regained compliance with the shareholder equity minimum requirement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with The NASDAQ Global Market minimum requirements. If we fail to comply with those requirements within the required period, and we shall not be able to take sufficient steps to regain compliance, our shares may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our ordinary shares has been and may be extremely volatile and our investors may not be able to resell the shares at or above the price they paid, or at all. During the past years, the closing price of our ordinary shares experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The high and low closing prices of our ordinary shares traded on the NASDAQ Global Market during each of the last three years, after giving effect to the one-for-four reverse split executed in December 2011, are summarized in the table below: High Low 2012 $ 4.31 $ 1.25 2011 $ 10.00 $ 2.01 2010 $ 11.76 $ 4.80 As of April 22, 2013, the market price of our ordinary shares was $3.86. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will return to previous levels. The market price of our ordinary shares may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · impairments of our intangible assets; · our continued operating losses and negative cash flows; · our continued non-compliance with our debt covenants; · our inability to secure funding; · any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly revenues and operating results; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · adverse consequences of litigation; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors; · the introduction or market acceptance of new products or service offerings by us or by our competitors; · changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; · changes in accounting principles; · sales of our shares by existing shareholders; and · the loss of any of our key personnel. 18 In addition, global and local economic, political and market conditions, and military conflicts and, in particular, those specifically related to the State of Israel, may affect the market price of our shares. Future sales of our shares to be registered for resale in the public market could dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fall. As of April 22, 2013, we had 10,678,065 ordinary shares outstanding and 773,711 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our employee equity compensation plans, including 609,561 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding employee options, warrants and unvested restricted stock units. As of such date, we also had the following commitments to issue our ordinary shares: · 127,928 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued by us to institutional investors in connection with the private placement consummated in October 2009; and · 3,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to Liolios Group, Inc., in connection with certain services provided to us. We registered for resale the shares underlying the warrants issued to the institutional investors in October 2009, pursuant to registration rights agreements entered into with such investors. For more information, see “Item 5.B - Liquidity and Capital Resources – Contractual Commitments and Guarantees.” The exercise of options by employees and office holders, vesting of restricted stock units granted to employees and office holders, exercise of warrants by investors and conversion of loans to equity, would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options, warrants or conversion rights, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If a large number of our ordinary shares is sold in a short period, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decrease. Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that in 2012, we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, as that term is defined under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States of 1986, as amended, referred to as the Code, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with our position. Generally, a foreign corporation such as we are, would be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if after applying certain look-through rules (i) 75% or more of its gross income in a taxable year (including its pro-rata share of the gross income of any U.S. or foreign company in which it is considered to own 25% or more of the shares by value) is passive income, or (ii) the fair market value of its assets averaged quarterly over the taxable year that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income is at least 50% (including its pro-rata share of the assets of any company in which it is considered to own 25% or more of the shares by value). Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences, including being taxed at ordinary income tax rates and being subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. For additional information regarding our PFIC status, see the discussion under Item 10.E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 19 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain listing requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to the NASDAQ Global Market in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. We follow home country practice with regard to distribution of annual reports to shareholders, meetings of independent directors in which only independent directors participate, approval of share compensation plans and changes in such plans and approval of share issuance or potential issuance which results in a change of control of the company. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses to us. In order to maintain our current status as a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities, where more than 50 percent of our outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned by residents of the United States, we must not have any of the following: (i) a majority of our executive officers or directors being U.S. citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of our assets being located in the U.S., or (iii) our business being principally administered in the U.S. If we were to lose our “foreign private issuer” status: · we would no longer be exempt from certain of the provisions of U.S. securities laws such as, Regulation FD, exemptions for filing beneficial ownership reports under Section 16(a) for officers, directors, and ten (10%) percent shareholders (Forms 3, 4, and 5), and the Section 16(b) short swing profit rules; · we would be required to commence reporting on forms required of U.S. companies, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, rather than the forms currently available to us, such as Forms 20-F and 6-K; · we would be subject to additional restrictions on offers and sales of securities outside the United States; 20 · we may lose the ability to reply upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers; · we would be required to include substantially more information in proxy statements than presently provided; and · if we engage in capital raising activities after losing our foreign private issuer status, there is a higher likelihood that investors may require us to file resale registration statements with the SECas a condition to any such financing. We expect that complying with these additional requirements, if we are no longer considered a foreign private issuer, would significantly increase our legal and audit fees which in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 