ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider all of the risks described below regarding our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our financial results have been adversely affected by the turmoil in the financial markets and the economy in general. As a financial services firm, changes in the financial markets or economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world could materially adversely affect our business in many ways, including the following: • a market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads; • low interest rates adversely impact interest sharing revenues received from our clearing firms; • unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and could therefore be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions; • adverse changes in the market could lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors; • increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations; • adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in the market could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions, an upturn in the market could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market; and • new or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or securities transactions may adversely affect our financial results. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant operating losses. We incurred significant losses from operations for each of the years in the four-year period ended December 31, 2011 and during each of the years in the four-year period ended December 31, 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow on either a quarterly or annual basis. Although we believe that we have adequate cash and regulatory capital to fund our current level of operating activities through December 31, 2012, if we are unable to attain and sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend or cease operations. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our financial leverage, which increased following the Securities America acquisition, limits cash flow available for operations and may impair our ability to obtain financing. In November 2011, in connection with the Securities America acquisition, we incurred significant additional indebtedness. Our indebtedness: • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, resulting in less cash available for operations and other purposes; • limits our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, regulatory capital requirements, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; and • increases our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt which, as of December 31, 2011, was approximately $206 million, depends on our future operating performance and prospects. Also, there can be no assurance that we will satisfy the requirements for forgiveness of our forgivable loans. Our future operating performance is subject to many factors, including economic, financial and competitive factors, which may be beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations which would have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and results of operations. Our business depends on commissions and fees generated from the distribution of financial products, and adverse changes in the structure or amount of fees paid by the sponsors of these products could materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and results of operations. An important portion of our revenues is generated from commissions and fees related to the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities by our independent financial advisors, and to a lesser extent, Ladenburg’s financial advisors. Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could materially adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and results of operation. Also, regulatory agencies and other industry participants have suggested that Rule 12b-1 distribution fees in the mutual fund industry should be reconsidered and, potentially, reduced or eliminated. Any reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 distribution fees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face significant competition for financial advisors and professional employees. From time to time, financial advisors and individuals we employ may choose to leave our company to pursue other opportunities. We have experienced losses of financial advisors and trading and investment banking professionals in the past, and the level of competition for key personnel remains intense. We cannot assure you that the loss of financial advisors and key personnel will not occur again in the future. We expend significant resources in recruiting, training and retaining our financial advisors. The loss of a financial advisor or a trading or investment banking professional, particularly a senior professional with a broad range of contacts in an industry, or the failure to recruit productive financial advisors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct could include: • binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits; • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; • improperly using or disclosing confidential information; • recommending transactions that are not suitable or in the client’s best interests; 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS • engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity; • engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading to the detriment of customers; or • otherwise not complying with laws or our control procedures. We cannot always deter misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our independent financial advisors, who are not employees of our company and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. Misconduct by our employees and independent financial advisors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially due to the nature of our business and therefore we may fail to meet profitability expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, including: fluctuations in capital markets, which may affect trading activity in commission-based accounts and asset values in fee-based accounts, the level of underwriting and advisory transactions completed by Ladenburg and attrition of financial advisors. Accordingly, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to an increased or decreased number of transactions in any particular quarter or year. Poor performance of the investment products and services recommended or sold to asset management clients may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our investment advisory clients generally may terminate their contracts at anytime. These clients can terminate their relationship, reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, financial market performance and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services recommended or sold to such clients relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be prohibited from underwriting securities due to capital limits. From time to time, our underwriting activities may require that we temporarily receive an infusion of capital for regulatory purposes. This is predicated on the amount of commitment Ladenburg makes for each underwriting. In the past, we entered into temporary subordinated loan arrangements with our shareholders or clearing firm. Should we no longer be able to receive such funding from these sources, and if there are no other viable sources available, it would have an adverse impact on our ability to underwrite offerings, generate profits, recruit financial consultants and retain existing customers. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Ladenburg’s investment banking clients generally retain Ladenburg on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, Ladenburg must seek out new engagements when its current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from new or existing clients, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. We depend on our senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business. Our success is dependent in large part upon the services of several of our senior executives and employees, including those of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. We do not maintain and do not intend to obtain key man insurance on the life of any executive or employee. If our senior executives or employees terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements in relatively short periods of time, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our business depends on our and our clearing firm’s ability to process, on a daily basis, many transactions across numerous and diverse markets and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. We rely heavily on our communications and financial, accounting and other data processing systems, including systems we maintain and systems provided by our clearing brokers and service providers. We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third party trading systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Also, our clearing brokers provide our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing brokers will not suffer any systems failures or interruption, including ones caused by earthquake, fire, other natural disasters, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, cyber attacks, terrorism, or otherwise, or that our or our clearing brokers’ back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The inability of our or our clearing brokers’ systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our business. A default by any of Ladenburg’s subtenants may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, and results of operations. Ladenburg has subleased office space at 590 Madison Avenue, New York, New York to three unrelated subtenants, some of whom are engaged in the financial services industry. The subleases provide for sublease payments to Ladenburg of approximately $16 million through June 2015. Should any of the sub-tenants not pay their sublease payments to Ladenburg or otherwise default under a sublease for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional information regarding these subleases, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. Also, because our independent financial advisors work in small, decentralized offices, additional risk management challenges may exist. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. Nonetheless, the effectiveness of our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on two clearing brokers and the termination of our clearing agreements could disrupt our business. Each of Ladenburg, Triad and Investacorp uses one clearing broker to process securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. Securities America uses this same clearing broker and an additional clearing broker to process securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. Each clearing broker also provides billing services, extends credit and provides for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries depend on the operational capacity and ability of its clearing broker for the orderly processing of transactions. By engaging the processing 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS services of a clearing firm, each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries is exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If these clearing agreements were terminated for any reason, we would be forced to find alternative clearing arrangements. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find alternative clearing arrangements on acceptable terms to us or at all. Also, the loss of a clearing firm could hamper the ability of our independent broker-dealers to recruit and retain their respective independent financial advisors. Our clearing brokers extend credit to our clients and we are liable if the clients do not pay. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries permits its clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the clearing firm extends credit to the client secured by cash and securities in the client’s account. During periods of volatile markets, the value of the collateral held by the clearing broker could fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing broker sells or buys securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. Each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify its clearing brokers for losses they may incur while extending credit to its clients. A relatively small number of institutional customers generates a significant portion of our institutional trading revenue. A relatively small number of our institutional investor customers generate a substantial portion of our institutional trading revenue. If any key customers depart or reduce their business with us and we fail to attract new customers that are capable of generating significant trading volumes, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by third parties’ financial or other problems. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include: • trading counterparties; • customers; • clearing agents; • other broker-dealers; • exchanges; • clearing houses; and • other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from: • holding securities of third parties; • executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and • extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The securities industry is rapidly evolving, intensely competitive and has few barriers to entry. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors also offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and a larger client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business and may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Errors and omissions claims may negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in placing insurance, effecting securities transactions and rendering investment advice. These activities involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against our subsidiaries or their financial advisors may allege liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to effect securities transactions on behalf of clients, to choose suitable investments for any particular client, to supervise a financial advisor or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information. It is not always possible to prevent or detect errors and omissions, and the precautions our subsidiaries take may not be effective in all cases. Moreover, our Ladenburg subsidiary and its financial advisors do not carry errors and omissions insurance coverage. Our liability for significant and successful errors and omissions claims may materially and negatively affect our results of operations. We are subject to various risks associated with the securities industry, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: • the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets; • extensive governmental regulation; • litigation; • intense competition; • substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and • dependence on the solvency of various third parties. As a result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In periods of low retail and institutional brokerage volume and reduced investment banking activity, profitability is impaired because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. We are much smaller and have much less capital than many competitors in the securities industry. In the event of a market downturn, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we are unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. Legal liability may harm our business. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risks of liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. In the normal course of business, our operating subsidiaries have been, and continue to be, the subject of numerous civil actions, regulatory proceedings and arbitrations arising out of customer complaints relating to our activities as a broker-dealer, as an employer or as a result of other business activities. Dissatisfied clients often make claims against securities firms and their brokers and 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS investment advisers for, among others, negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, suitability, churning, failure to conduct adequate due diligence on products offered, failure to address issues arising from product due diligence, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions, improper recruiting activity, and failures in the processing of securities transactions. These types of claims expose us to the risk of significant loss. Also, an underwriter, such as Ladenburg, is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws, and court decisions, including decisions about underwriters’ liability and limitations on indemnification of underwriters by issuers. For example, a firm that acts as an underwriter may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus used in connection with the securities being offered or for statements made by its securities analysts or other personnel. Therefore, Ladenburg’s activities may subject it to the risk of significant legal liabilities to its clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of its clients who could bring securities class actions against Ladenburg. As a result, Ladenburg may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Ladenburg’s underwriting activities often involve offerings of the securities of smaller companies, which may involve a higher degree of risk and are more volatile than the securities of more established companies. In comparison with more established companies, smaller companies are also more likely to be the subject of securities class actions, to carry directors and officers liability insurance policies with lower limits or not at all, and to become insolvent. Each of these factors increases the likelihood that an underwriter of a smaller company’s securities will be required to contribute to an adverse judgment or settlement of a securities lawsuit. While we do not expect the outcome of any pending claims against us to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot assure you that these types of proceedings, which may generate losses that significantly exceed our reserves, will not materially and adversely affect us. Also, legal or regulatory actions could cause significant reputational harm, which could in turn seriously harm our business prospects. Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment We are subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and our business is subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA and the MSRB. The regulatory environment is also subject to change and we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other federal or state governmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Each of Securities America, Ladenburg, Investacorp and Triad is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and FINRA. Premier Trust is subject to regulation by the Nevada Department of Business and Industry Financial Institutions Division. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including: • sales methods and supervision; • trading practices among broker-dealers; • use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities; • capital structure of securities firms; • record keeping; and • conduct of directors, officers and employees. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Compliance with many of these regulations involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. The requirements imposed by these regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA. FINRA adopts rules, subject to SEC approval, that govern broker-dealers and conducts periodic examinations of firms’ operations. If we are found to have violated any applicable regulation, formal administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in: • censure; • fine; • civil penalties, including treble damages in the case of insider trading violations; • the issuance of cease-and-desist orders; • the deregistration or suspension of our broker-dealer activities; • the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees; or • other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Legislative, judicial or regulatory changes to the classification of independent contractors could increase our operating expenses. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of independent contractors’ classification to employees for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefits available to employees. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 “common law” factors, rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regulations. Each of Securities America, Investacorp and Triad classifies its financial advisors as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee benefit purposes. We cannot assure you that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the employee/independent contractor classification of Securities America’s, Investacorp’s and Triad’s financial advisors. The costs associated with potential changes, if any, to these independent contractor classifications could have a material adverse effect on us, including our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with capital requirements could subject us to suspension, revocation or fines by the SEC, FINRA or other regulators. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s Net Capital Rule, which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. Also, Securities America is subject to the net capital requirements of CFTC Regulation 1.17. Under Nevada law, Premier Trust must maintain minimum stockholders’ equity of at least $1,000,000, including at least $250,000 in cash. At December 31, 2011, each of our broker-dealer subsidiaries exceeded its minimum net capital requirement and Premier Trust exceeded its minimum stockholder’s equity requirement. The Net Capital Rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. In computing net capital, various adjustments are made to net worth which exclude assets not readily convertible into cash. The regulations also require that certain assets, such as a broker-dealer’s position in securities, be valued in a conservative manner to avoid over-inflation of the broker-dealer’s net capital. The Net Capital Rule requires a broker-dealer to maintain a minimum level of net capital. The particular levels vary depending upon the nature of the activity undertaken by a firm. Compliance with the Net Capital Rule limits those operations of broker-dealers which require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The rule also limits the ability of 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness such as subordinated debt as it matures. A significant operating loss or any charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of a broker-dealer to expand or, depending on the magnitude of the loss or charge, maintain its then present level of business. FINRA may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm’s net capital. If the calculation reveals a net capital deficiency, FINRA may immediately restrict or suspend some or all of the broker-dealer’s activities, including its ability to make markets. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or their net capital may fall below requirements established by the SEC or the CFTC, as applicable, and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. During the fourth quarter of 2009, one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries had a short-term net-capital deficiency and could face disciplinary action including a fine, a suspension of its operations and/or rescission of revenues relating to the period of non-compliance. A change in the tax treatment of insurance and other financial products or a determination that certain products are not insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could reduce the demand for these products, which may reduce our revenue. The market for many insurance and other financial products sold by our independent financial advisors depends on the favorable tax treatment, including the tax-free build up of cash values and the tax-free nature of death benefits that these products receive relative to other investment alternatives. A change in the tax treatment of insurance products or a determination by the IRS that certain of these products are not insurance contracts for federal tax purposes could remove many of the tax advantages policyholders seek in these policies. Also, the IRS periodically releases guidance on the tax treatment of products. If the provisions of the tax code were changed or new federal tax regulations and IRS rulings and releases were issued in a manner that would make it more difficult for holders of these insurance contracts to qualify for favorable tax treatment or subject holders to special tax reporting requirements, the demand for the insurance contracts could decrease, which may reduce our revenue and negatively affect our business. Risk Factors Relating to Strategic Acquisitions and the Integration of Acquired Operations We may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, including Securities America, into our existing business and operations, which may adversely affect our cash flows, liquidity and results of operations. We have completed numerous acquisitions since 2006, including most recently, our acquisition of Securities America, which is our largest acquisition to date. We continue to explore opportunities to grow our businesses, including through potential acquisitions of other securities firms, both domestically and internationally. These acquisitions may involve payments of material amounts of cash incurrence of a material amount of debt or the issuance of significant amounts of our equity securities, which may increase our leverage and/or be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may experience difficulty integrating the operations of these entities or any other entities acquired in the future into our existing business and operations. Furthermore, we may not be able retain all of the employees we acquire as a result of these transactions. If we are unable to effectively address these risks, we may be required to restructure the acquired businesses or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business and operations in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We may be adversely affected if the firms we acquire do not perform as expected. Even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we may be adversely affected if the acquired firms do not perform as expected. The firms we acquire may perform below expectations after the acquisition for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products in which a firm specializes, the loss of key clients, employees and/or financial advisors after the acquisition closing, general economic factors and the cultural incompatibility of an acquired firm’s management team with us. The failure of firms to perform as expected at the time of acquisition may have an adverse effect on our earnings and revenue growth rates, and may result in impairment charges and/or generate losses or charges to earnings. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business. We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from organic growth and through acquisitions. As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, as we acquire new businesses, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems into ours, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations. A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the shares of our common stock at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our common stock has ranged between $.61 and $2.94 per share for the 52 week period ended December 31, 2011. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • variations in quarterly operating results; • general economic and business conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets; • our announcements of significant contracts, milestones or acquisitions; • our relationships with other companies; • our ability to obtain needed capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the initiation or outcome of litigation or arbitration proceedings; • sales of common stock, conversion of securities convertible into common stock, exercise of options and warrants to purchase common stock or termination of stock transfer restrictions; • legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • fluctuation in stock market price and volume. Any one of these factors could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Also, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have materially affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated to such companies’ operating performance. These market fluctuations have adversely impacted the price of our common stock in the past and may do so in the future. Also, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s time and attention. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our principal shareholders including our directors and officers control a large percentage of our shares of common stock and can significantly influence our corporate actions. At March 1, 2012, our executive officers, directors and companies with which these individuals are affiliated with beneficially owned approximately 43% of our common stock. Accordingly, these individuals and entities can significantly influence most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors and the appointment of officers. Also, this ownership of our common stock may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, therefore possibly discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire us. A third party would have to negotiate any possible transactions with these principal shareholders, and their interests may be different from the interests of our other shareholders. This may depress the price of our common stock. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. Also, FINRA regulations restrict dividends in excess of 10% of a member firm’s excess net capital without FINRA’s prior approval. Compliance with this regulation may impede our ability to receive dividends from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Possible additional issuances will cause dilution. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding 183,253,068 shares of common stock and options and warrants to purchase a total of 52,225,294 shares of common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 400,000,000 shares of common stock and are therefore able to issue additional shares without being required under corporate law to obtain shareholder approval. If we issue additional shares, or if our existing shareholders exercise their outstanding options and warrants, our other shareholders may find their holdings drastically diluted, which if it occurs, means that they would own a smaller percentage of our company. We may issue preferred stock with preferential rights that may adversely affect your rights. The rights of our shareholders will be subject to and may be adversely affected by the rights of holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privilege and restrictions, including voting rights, of these shares without further shareholder approval. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, you must rely on sales of your common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any positive return on your investment in our common stock. Net capital requirements imposed on our broker-dealer subsidiaries by the SEC and covenants contained in our outstanding debt agreements also restrict our ability to pay dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS 