ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider all of the material risks described below regarding our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We have incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, significant operating losses. Although we had net income for the year ended December 31, 2006, we did incur significant losses from operations during each of the four years ended December 31, 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow on either a quarterly or annual basis. Although we believe that we have adequate cash and regulatory capital to fund our current level of operating activities through December 31, 2007, if we are unable to sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend or cease operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business and operations. Ladenburg made two acquisitions in 2006. On September 11, 2006, Ladenburg acquired substantially all of the securities brokerage accounts and registered representatives and employees of BroadWall Capital. On October 18, 2006, we acquired Telluride Holdings and its operating subsidiary, Capitalink, L.C. We continue to explore opportunities to grow our businesses, including through potential acquisitions of other securities firms, both domestically and internationally. These acquisitions may involve payments of material amounts of cash or debt or the issuance of significant amounts of our equity securities, which may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may experience difficulty integrating the operations of these entities or any other entities acquired in the future into our existing business and operations. Furthermore, we may not be able retain all of the employees we acquire as a result of these transactions. If we are unable to effectively address these risks, we may be required to restructure the 10 Table of Contents acquired businesses or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business and operations in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenue for any period may result from a limited number of underwriting transactions. A large part of our revenue for any period may be derived from a limited number of underwritings in which we serve as either the lead or co-manager. We cannot assure you that we will continue to serve as lead or co-manager of similar underwritings in the future. If we are not able to do so, our revenue may significantly decrease and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenues may decline if the market for SPAC offerings declines. A downturn in the market for SPAC transactions could adversely affect our results of operations. Underwritings for SPAC transactions have been an important source of revenues for us during 2006 and 2005. SPAC transactions are currently exempt from rules adopted by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419 under the Securities Act of 1933. However, the SEC may determine to adopt new rules relating to SPAC transactions which could impact our ability to successfully underwrite these transactions. A substantial portion of our underwriting fees is deferred and may not be received by us in certain situations. At December 31, 2006, we were owed deferred fees from SPAC underwritings that we participated in of $13,400,000, or approximately $8,200,000 after expenses. These deferred fees are not included in our revenues, however, until a business combination is completed by the SPAC and we are paid. Accordingly, if the SPACs from which we are owed deferred fees are unable to consummate business combinations, we will not be entitled to receive the deferred fees we are owed. SPACs face significant competition in consummating business combinations. Since August 2003, based upon publicly available information, approximately 84 SPACs have completed initial public offerings as of March 7, 2007. Of these companies, only 19 companies have consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination and four companies have failed to complete business combinations and have dissolved and returned trust proceeds to their stockholders. Accordingly, if the SPACs that owe us deferred fees do not consummate business combinations, we will not receive these fees and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to the nature of our business and therefore may fail to meet profitability expectations. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors, including the level of underwritings and advisory transactions completed by us and the level of fees we receive from those underwritings and transactions. Accordingly, our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to an increased or decreased number of transactions in any particular quarter or year. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to repay our outstanding indebtedness obligations when due, our operations may be materially adversely affected. Currently, we have an aggregate of $5,000,000 principal amount of indebtedness outstanding owed to our former parent, New Valley, which is due on March 31, 2007. We have entered into an agreement with New Valley pursuant to which it will exchange the principal amount of indebtedness for shares of our common stock, subject to approval of our shareholders, and we will pay in cash the accrued interest on such indebtedness, which was approximately $1,500,000 at December 31, 2006. If this agreement is not consummated, we may be forced, among other things, to reduce the capital of Ladenburg to repay this indebtedness which may have an adverse impact on our investment banking activities. We are currently subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and our business is subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including the NYSE, the NASD and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. The regulatory environment is also subject to change and we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other federal or state governmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Ladenburg is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and a member firm of the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including: • sales methods and supervision; • trading practices among broker-dealers; • use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities; • capital structure of securities firms; • record keeping; and • the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to us involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. The requirements imposed by these regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally the NASD Regulation, Inc., the regulatory arm of the NASD, and the NYSE, which are our primary regulatory agencies. NASD Regulation and the NYSE adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, that govern its members and conducts periodic examinations of member firms’ operations. In November 2006, the NASD and NYSE announced a plan to consolidate their member regulation operations into a combined organization that will be the sole U.S. private-sector provider of member firm regulation for securities firms doing business with the public. The plan is intended to remove duplicative and inconsistent regulation and overlapping jurisdiction among the regulatory bodies. However, the merger is subject to 12 Table of Contents approval by the SEC and there is no assurance that it will be approved or if it is, when it might happen. Accordingly, we are still required to comply with each bodies’ regulations. If we are found to have violated any applicable regulation, formal administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in: • censure; • fine; • civil penalties, including treble damages in the case of insider trading violations; • the issuance of cease-and-desist orders; • the deregistration or suspension of our broker-dealer activities; • the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees; or • other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may incur significant losses from trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We may maintain trading and investment positions in the equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in those markets, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We may from time to time have a trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one security and a short position in another security from which we expect to earn revenues based on changes in the relative value of the two securities. If, however, the relative value of the two securities changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or against which we are not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired positions. In addition, we maintain trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels. We may need to raise additional funds in the near future. Our capital requirements have been adversely affected in past years by our inability to generate cash from operations. We have been forced to rely on borrowings and proceeds from the sale of our common stock in order to generate working capital for our operations. Accordingly, we may need to seek to raise additional capital through other available sources, including through equity offerings or borrowing additional funds on a short-term basis from third parties, including our current shareholders and clearing broker. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $7,000,000. If we 13 Table of Contents are unable to generate cash from operations and are unable to find other sources of funding, it would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. We may be prohibited from underwriting securities due to capital limits. From time to time, our underwriting activities may require that we temporarily receive an infusion of capital for regulatory purposes. This is predicated on the amount of commitment Ladenburg makes for each underwriting. In the past, we entered into temporary subordinated loan arrangements with our current shareholders or clearing firm. Should we no longer be able to receive such funding from these sources, and if there are no other viable sources available, it would have an adverse impact on our ability to generate profits, recruit financial consultants and retain existing customers. Our expenses may increase due to real estate commitments. We have ceased using our Madison Avenue (New York City) office space and have subleased the entire premises to various subtenants. Should any of the sub-tenants not renew or renew for a sub-rental less than Ladenburg’s lease commitments, or not pay their rent for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on Ladenburg’s financial position and liquidity. Our business could be adversely affected by a downturn in the financial markets. As a securities broker-dealer, our business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Many factors or events could lead to a downturn in the financial markets including war, terrorism, natural catastrophes and other types of disasters. These types of events could cause people to begin to lose confidence in the financial markets and their ability to function effectively. If the financial markets are unable to effectively prepare for these types of events and ease public concern over their ability to function, our revenues are likely to decline and our operations will be adversely affected. Our revenues may decline in adverse market or economic conditions. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and therefore may be adversely affected by any downturn in the securities markets. Additionally, downturn in market conditions may lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we would otherwise receive from commissions and spreads. Should these adverse financial and economic conditions appear and persist for any extended period of time, we will incur a further decline in transactions and revenues that we receive from commissions and spreads. We depend on our senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business. Our success is dependent in large part upon the services of several of our senior executives and employees, including those of Ladenburg. We do not maintain and do not intend to obtain key man insurance on the life of any executive or employee. If our senior executives or employees terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements in relatively short periods of time, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We face significant competition for professional employees. From time to time, individuals we employ may choose to leave our company to pursue other opportunities. We have experienced losses of registered representatives, trading and investment banking professionals in the past, and the level of competition for key personnel remains intense. We cannot assure you that the loss of key personnel will not occur again in the future. The loss of a registered representative or a trading or investment banking professional, particularly a senior professional with a broad range of contacts in an industry, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our principal shareholders including our directors and officers control a large percentage of our shares of common stock and can significantly influence our corporate actions. At the present time, our executive officers, directors and companies that these individuals are affiliated with beneficially own approximately 38% of our common stock. Accordingly, these individuals and entities will be able to significantly influence most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors and the appointment of officers. Additionally, this ownership of our common stock may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, therefore possibly discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire us. A third party would have to negotiate any possible transactions with these principal shareholders, and their interests may be different from the interests of our other shareholders. This may depress the price of our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our common stock from quotation on its exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the American Stock Exchange. In order to continue quotation of our common stock, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in shareholders’ equity (usually between $2,000,000 and $4,000,000) and a minimum number of public shareholders (usually 300 shareholders). Additionally, our common stock cannot have what is deemed to be a “low selling price” as determined by the Exchange. If the Exchange delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may lose customers and our revenues may decline due to our lack of online trading service capability. A growing number of brokerage firms offer online trading services to their customers in response to increased customer demand for these services. Currently, we are unable to offer online trading services, nor do we anticipate having such ability in the near future. Should we offer such services in the future, the services may not appeal to our current or prospective customers and these services may not be profitable. Our failure to commence online trading services in the near future could have a material adverse effect on our business including the loss of our existing customers to competitors that do offer these services. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, if we commence online trading services but are unable to attract customers for those services, our revenues will decline. We rely on one primary clearing broker and the termination of the agreement with this clearing broker could disrupt our business. Ladenburg primarily uses one clearing broker to process its securities transactions and maintain customer accounts on a fee basis. The clearing broker also provides billing services, extends credit and provides for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. Ladenburg depends on the operational capacity and ability of the clearing broker for the orderly processing of transactions. In addition, by engaging the processing services of a clearing firm, Ladenburg is exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If the clearing agreement is terminated for any reason, we would be forced to find an alternative clearing firm. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find an alternative clearing firm on acceptable terms to us or at all. Our clearing broker extends credit to our clients and we are liable if the clients do not pay. Ladenburg permits its clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the clearing firm extends credit to the client secured by cash and securities in the client’s account. During periods of volatile markets, the value of the collateral held by the clearing broker could fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing broker sells or buys securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. Ladenburg has agreed to indemnify the clearing broker for losses it may incur while extending credit to its clients. We are subject to various risks associated with the securities industry. As a securities broker-dealer, Ladenburg is subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: • the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets; • extensive governmental regulation; • litigation; • intense competition; • substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and • dependence on the solvency of various third parties. As a result, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. In periods of low volume, profitability is impaired because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. Ladenburg is much smaller and has much less capital than many competitors in the securities industry. In the event of a market downturn, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we are unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. 16 Table of Contents Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. We believe that we effectively evaluate and manage the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed. Nonetheless, the effectiveness of our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers as well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk. Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include: • trading counterparties; • customers; • clearing agents; • exchanges; • clearing houses; and • other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from: • holding securities of third parties; • executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and 17 Table of Contents • extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The securities industry is rapidly evolving, intensely competitive and has few barriers to entry. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors also offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and a larger client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business. The precautions we take to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not be effective and we could be exposed to unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. We run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include: • employees binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks to us; • employees hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from us; or • the improper use of confidential information. These types of misconduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses to us including regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective. If employee misconduct does occur, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could subject us to suspension or revocation by the SEC or suspension or expulsion by the NASD and the NYSE. Ladenburg is subject to the SEC’s net capital rule which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. We compute net capital under the alternate method permitted by the net capital rule. Under this method, Ladenburg is required to maintain net capital equal to $250,000. At December 31, 2006, Ladenburg had net capital of $16,696,000, which exceeded its minimum net capital requirement by $16,446,000. The net capital rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. In computing net capital, various adjustments are made to net worth which exclude assets not readily convertible into cash. Additionally, the regulations require that certain assets, such as a broker-dealer’s position in securities, be valued in a conservative manner so as to avoid over-inflation of the broker-dealer’s net capital. The net capital rule requires that a broker-dealer maintain a certain minimum level of net capital. The particular levels vary in application depending upon the nature of the activity undertaken by a firm. Compliance with the net capital rule limits those operations of broker-dealers which 18 Table of Contents require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The rule also limits the ability of securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness such as subordinated debt as it matures. A significant operating loss or any charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of a broker-dealer to expand or, depending on the magnitude of the loss or charge, maintain its then present level of business. The NASD and the NYSE may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm’s net capital. If the calculation reveals a deficiency in net capital, the NASD may immediately restrict or suspend certain or all of the activities of a broker-dealer, including its ability to make markets. Ladenburg may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or its net capital may fall below requirements established by the SEC, and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. Risk of losses associated with securities laws violations and litigation. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. An underwriter is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws, and court decisions, including decisions with respect to underwriters’ liability and limitations on indemnification of underwriters by issuers. For example, a firm that acts as an underwriter may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus used in connection with the securities being offered or for statements made by its securities analysts or other personnel. In recent years, there has been an increasing incidence of litigation involving the securities industry, including class actions that seek substantial damages. Our underwriting activities will usually involve offerings of the securities of smaller companies, which often involve a higher degree of risk and are more volatile than the securities of more established companies. In comparison with more established companies, smaller companies are also more likely to be the subject of securities class actions, to carry directors and officers liability insurance policies with lower limits or not at all, and to become insolvent. Each of these factors increases the likelihood that an underwriter of a smaller companies’ securities will be required to contribute to an adverse judgment or settlement of a securities lawsuit. In the normal course of business, our operating subsidiaries have been and continue to be the subject of numerous civil actions and arbitrations arising out of customer complaints relating to our activities as a broker-dealer, as an employer and as a result of other business activities. In general, the cases involve various allegations that our employees had mishandled customer accounts. We believe that, based on our historical experience and the reserves established by us, the resolution of the claims presently pending will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, although we typically reserve an amount we believe will be sufficient to cover any damages assessed against us, we have in the past been assessed damages that exceeded our reserves. If we misjudged the amount of damages that may be assessed against us from pending or threatened claims, or if we are unable to adequately estimate the amount of damages that will be assessed against us from claims that arise in the future and reserve accordingly, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Possible additional issuances will cause dilution. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding 155,972,805 shares of common stock and options and warrants to purchase a total of 25,443,311 shares of common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 400,000,000 shares of common stock and are therefore able to issue additional shares without being required under corporate law to obtain shareholder approval. If we issue additional shares, or if our existing shareholders exercise their outstanding options and warrants, our other shareholders may find their holdings drastically diluted, which if it occurs, means that they will own a smaller percentage of our company. 19 Table of Contents We may issue preferred stock with preferential rights that may adversely affect your rights. The rights of our shareholders will be subject to and may be adversely affected by the rights of holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privilege and restrictions, including voting rights, of these shares without further shareholder approval. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the shares of our common stock at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our common stock has ranged between $0.62 and $3.75 per share over the past 52 weeks. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: • variations in quarterly operating results; • our announcements of significant contracts, milestones, acquisitions; • our relationships with other companies; • our ability to obtain needed capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the initiation or outcome of litigation or arbitrations; • sales of common stock, conversion of securities convertible into common stock, exercise of options and warrants to purchase common stock or termination of stock transfer restrictions; • general economic conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • fluctuation in stock market price and volume. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one of the factors noted herein could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These market fluctuations 20 Table of Contents have adversely impacted the price of our common stock in the past and may do so in the future. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 