ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The global economic crisis experienced since 2008 and any continuing unfavorable economic conditions have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition, which could in turn affect our stock price. Weak economic conditions and the resulting impact on the availability of public funds along with the possibility of state and local budget cuts and reduced university enrollment could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could cause insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products and inability or delay of our channel partners and other customers to pay accounts receivable owed to us. Economic conditions may have a disproportionate effect on the sale of our products. Many of our customers will look at the total A/V equipment and labor cost to outfit a typical conference room or lecture hall as one amount for budgetary purposes. Consequently, although our products represent only a portion of the total cost, the cost of the entire project of outfitting a room or conference hall may be considered excessive and may not survive budgetary constraints. Alternatively, our resellers may modify their quotes to end customers by eliminating our products or substituting less expensive competitive products in order to win opportunities within budget constraints. Event service partners may similarly suggest that customers eliminate recording and webcasting as a means of reducing event cost. Consequently, declines in spending by government, educational or corporate institutions due to budgetary constraints may have a disproportionate impact on the Company and result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Multiple unit deals are needed for continued success. We need to sell multiple units to educational, corporate and government institutions in order to sell most efficiently and remain profitable. In fiscal 2012, 81% of revenue was to existing customers compared to 67% in fiscal 2011. In particular, sales of multiple units to corporate customers have lagged behind results achieved in the higher education market; consequently, we have allocated more resources to the higher education market. While we have addressed a strategy to leverage existing customers and close multiple unit transactions, a customer may choose not to make expected purchases of our products. The failure of our customers to make expected purchases will harm our business. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints would harm our business. We subcontract the manufacture of our recorders to one third-party contract manufacturer. Although we believe there are multiple sources of supply from other contract manufacturers as well as multiple suppliers of component parts required by our contract manufacturer, a disruption of supply of component parts or completed products, even if short term, would have a material negative impact on our revenues. Many component parts currently have long delivery lead times and some suppliers cease production of certain components with limited notice in which to evaluate or obtain alternate supply, both require careful estimation of production requirements. Lengthening lead times, product design changes and other third party manufacturing disruptions have caused delays in delivery. In order to compensate for supply delays, we have sourced components from off-shore sources, used cross component 15 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 parts, paid for expediting and currently hold substantially larger quantities of inventory than in the past. Many of these strategies have increased our costs and may not be sufficient to ensure against production delays. We depend on our subcontract manufacturers to produce our products efficiently while maintaining high levels of quality. Any manufacturing defects, delay in production or changes in product features will likely cause customer dissatisfaction and may harm our reputation. Moreover, any incapacitation of the manufacturing site due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation. We may need to raise additional capital. At September 30, 2012 we had cash of $4.5 million and availability under our line of credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank of $2.8 million. The Company has historically financed its operations primarily through cash from sales of equity securities, and to a limited extent, cash from operations and, through bank credit facilities. The Company has a history of operating losses and historically used cash in operations prior to fiscal 2010. The Company improved both metrics with a combination of increased revenue and expense reductions over the last several fiscal years and while we expect to continue to increase revenue in fiscal 2013 and manage our expense growth to a level less than anticipated growth in revenues, we cannot ensure that revenue will grow as anticipated and if revenue is determined to be growing at a rate less than anticipated, it may be too late to reduce expenses for fiscal 2013. The Company believes its cash position and available credit is adequate to accomplish its business plan through at least the next twelve months. We may evaluate further operating or capital lease opportunities or incur additional term debt to finance equipment purchases in the future and may utilize the Company’s revolving line of credit to support working capital needs. While the Company anticipates that it will be in compliance with all provisions of our debt facilities, there can be no assurance that the existing debt facilities will be available to the Company or that additional financing will be available or on terms acceptable to the Company. The business environment is not currently conducive to raising additional debt or equity financing and may not improve in the near term. If we borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we raise additional equity, the terms of such financing may dilute the ownership interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall significantly. We may not be able to secure financing upon acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm our business, operating results, and financial condition We have only recently achieved profitability. While we reached profitability in fiscal 2012 and generated cash from operations of $350 thousand, we may not realize sufficient revenues to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. For the year ended September 30, 2012, we had a gross margin of $18.8 million on revenue of $26.1 million with which to cover selling, marketing, product development and general and administrative costs. Our selling, marketing, product development and general and administrative costs have historically been a significant percentage of our revenue, due partly to the expense of developing leads and the relatively long period required to convert leads into sales associated with selling products that are not yet considered "mainstream" technology investments. Fluctuations in profitability or failure to maintain profitability will likely impact the price of our stock. We could lose revenues if there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools and other education providers. Most of our customers and potential customers are public colleges, universities, schools and other education providers who depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, schools and other education providers could cause our current and potential customers to reduce their purchases of our products and services, or to decide not to renew service contracts, either of 16 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenues. The severe economic downturn experienced in the U.S. and globally has caused many of our clients to experience severe budgetary pressures, which has and will likely continue to have a negative impact on sales of our products. Continuing unfavorable economic conditions may result in further budget cuts and lead to lower overall spending, including information technology spending, by our current and potential clients, which may cause our revenues to decrease. If a sufficient number of customers do not accept our products, our business may not succeed. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop, and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince enterprise customers of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings, suitability and other benefits of our products. Our future revenue and revenue growth rates will depend in large part on our success in delivering these products effectively, creating market acceptance for these products and meeting customer’s needs for new or enhanced products. If we fail to do so, our products will not achieve widespread market acceptance, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to offset our product development and selling and marketing costs, which will hurt our business. We may not be able to innovate to meet the needs of our target market. Our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products, product enhancements or service offerings that address future needs of our target markets and to respond to these changing standards and practices. The success of new products, product enhancements or service offerings depend on several factors, including the timely completion, quality and market acceptance of the product, enhancement or service. Our revenue could be reduced if we do not capitalize on our current market leadership by timely developing innovative new products, product enhancements or service offerings that will increase the likelihood that our products and services will be accepted in preference to the products and services of our current and future competitors. If our marketing and lead generation efforts are not successful, our business will be harmed. We believe that continued marketing efforts will be critical to achieve widespread acceptance of our products. Our marketing campaigns may not be successful given the expense required. For example, failure to adequately generate and develop sales leads could cause our future revenue growth to decrease. In addition, our inability to generate and cultivate sales leads into large organizations, where there is the potential for significant use of our products, could have a material effect on our business. We may not be able to identify and secure the number of strategic sales leads necessary to help generate marketplace acceptance of our products. If our marketing or lead-generation efforts are not successful, our business and operating results will be harmed. The length of our sales and deployment cycles are uncertain, which may cause our revenue and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. During our sales cycle, we spend considerable time and expense providing information to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products without generating corresponding revenue. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and based in part on our expectations of future revenue. Therefore, any delay in our sales cycle could cause significant variations in our operating results, particularly because a relatively small number of customer orders represent a large portion of our revenue. Our largest potential sources of revenue are educational institutions, large corporations and government entities that often require long testing and approval processes before making a decision to purchase our products, particularly when evaluating our products for inclusion in new buildings under construction or high dollar transactions. In general, the process of selling our products to a potential customer may involve lengthy negotiations, collaborations with consultants, designers and architects, time consuming installation processes and changes in network infrastructure in excess of what we or our VARs are able to provide. In addition, educational institutions that started with small pilots are committing to more complex installations. Further, our educational market is expanding to include undergraduate classrooms, which, due to the increased size of these types of transactions, typically require a longer sales cycle. Also, our enterprise 17 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 accounts are less motivated by seasonal sales and promotions, and therefore are frequently difficult to finalize. As a result of these factors, our sales and deployment cycles are unpredictable. Our sales and deployment cycles is also subject to delays as a result of customer-specific factors over which we have little or no control, including budgetary constraints and internal approval procedures, particularly with customers or potential customers that rely on government funding. Our products are aimed toward a broadened user base within our key markets and these products are relatively early in their product life cycles. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince targeted users of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings and other benefits. Accordingly, it is likely that delays in our sales cycles with these products will occur and this could cause significant variations in our operating results. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our first fiscal quarter. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the higher education and corporate markets in the first fiscal quarter of each year. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales typically occur at the end of a quarter and the mix of product and service orders may vary significantly. Revenue for any particular quarter is extremely difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We typically ship products within a short time after we receive an order and therefore, we do not have an order backlog with which to estimate future revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn significantly negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. Accordingly, our expectations for both short and long-term future revenue is based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand based on the pipeline of sales opportunities we manage, rather than on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, our event business is particularly unpredictable and subject to variation due to the short time-frame between when we learn of an opportunity and when the event occurs. Further, the majority of our product orders are received in the last month of a quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. We historically have received all or nearly all our channel partner orders in the last month of a quarter and often in the last few days of the quarter. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in demand for our products or services in relation to our expectations, even if the result was a short term delay in orders, would have an adverse impact on our operating results. We have experienced growing demand for our hosting and event services as well as a growing preference from our corporate customers in purchasing our software as a service (SaaS). As a result, we expect that service billings as a percentage of total billings will continue to grow which we believe will ultimately lead to more recurring revenue. We subcontract for some services required by our events customers, such as close captioning, and charge for such services at a lower margin than other services. The percentage of billings represented by services, provided either directly or indirectly, is also likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality of event services and other factors. Since hosting and support services are typically billed in advance of providing the service, revenue is initially deferred, leading to reduced current period revenue with a corresponding negative impact to profits or losses in periods of significant increase in the percentage of our billings for deferred services. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to distributors such as Synnex Corporation and Starin Marketing, Inc., as well as other channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a long-term continuation or increase, in global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of 18 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 our sales to these channel partners and our revenue would be negatively affected. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory, due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenue in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, which would harm our business. If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide two of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of alternate products. We also provide price protection rights to these two distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot be assured that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, we would not be able to recognize revenue until these two distributors sell the inventory to the final end user which would have a material adverse effect on revenues in the period covered by that change. We depend in part on the success of our relationships with third-party resellers and integrators. Our success depends on various third-party relationships, particularly in our non-higher education business and with our international and events services operations. The relationships include third party resellers as well as system integrators that assist with implementations of our products and sourcing of our products and services. Identifying partners, negotiating and documenting relationships with them and maintaining their relationships require significant time and resources from us. In addition, our agreements with our resellers and integrators are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing products or services. We have limited control, if any, as to whether these strategic partners devote adequate resources to promoting, selling and implementing our products as compared to our competitor’s products. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to maintain or grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables. A significant portion of our sales are fulfilled by VARs, regional distributors or master distributors. As an example, 43% of our billings in 2012 were to Synnex Corporation and Starin Marketing Inc., two master distributors who fulfill demand from other distributors, VARs or end-users. While our distributors and VARs typically maintain payment terms consistent with other end-users, a delay in payment may occur as a result of a number of factors including changes in demand, general economic factors, financial performance, inventory levels or disputes over payments. Any delay from Synnex, Starin, or other large distributors or VARs, could have a material impact on the collections of our receivables during a particular quarter. We offer credit terms to some of our international customers; however, payments tend to go beyond terms in certain countries and advances allowable on accounts receivable from international customers under our revolving line of credit are calculated using a lower advance rate than domestic receivables and are limited to $500 thousand. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years and our ability to finance the increase will be limited. 19 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 Accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, cause us to defer revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our products and services. Revenue recognition for our products and services is complex and subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance, some of which are new, as well as varied interpretations and implementation practices for such rules. These rules require us to apply judgment in determining revenue recognition in certain situations. Factors that are considered in revenue recognition include those such as vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), best estimate of selling price and the inclusion of other services and contingencies to payment terms. We expect that we will continue to defer portions of our service billings because of these factors, and to the extent that management’s judgment is incorrect it could result in an increase in the amount of revenue deferred in any one period. The amounts deferred may also be significant and may vary from quarter to quarter depending on the mix of products sold or contractual terms. Additional changes in authoritative guidance or changes in practice in applying such rules could also cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or recognize lower revenue. Because most of our service contracts are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our service renewal rate could significantly reduce our revenues. Our clients have no obligation to renew their content hosting agreements, customer support contracts or other annual service contracts after the expiration of the initial period, which is typically one year, and some clients have elected not to do so. A decline in renewal rates could cause our revenues to decline. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of renewals, so we cannot accurately predict future renewal rates. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including client dissatisfaction with our products and services, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market, deteriorating economic conditions or budgetary constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our clients. Because we generally recognize revenues ratably over the term of our service contracts, downturns or upturns in service transactions will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We recognize most of our revenues from service contracts monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 12 months, although terms have ranged from less than one month to 48 months. As a result, much of the service revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. This ratable revenue recognition also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new clients must be recognized over the applicable agreement term. There is a great deal of competition in the market for our products, which could lower the demand for our products and have a negative impact on our operations. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, dynamic and subject to rapid technological change. The intensity of the competition and the pace of change are expected to increase in the future. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered, many of which have greater financial resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we have. In addition, new competitors with greater financial resources may arise through partnerships, distribution agreements, mergers, acquisitions or other types of transactions at any time. In particular, large companies have begun to make investments in and/or partner with smaller companies to enter the lecture capture market. We encounter competition with respect to different aspects of our solution from a variety of sources including: • Web conferencing solutions (e.g. Adobe, Cisco/WebEx, Microsoft and Citrix). Although part of the overall online multimedia communications landscape, these solutions are designed primarily for collaborative communications versus one-to-many communications like Mediasite. Many organizations acknowledge that they need both technologies – one-to-many webcasting and collaborative web conferencing – to appropriately address their different communication requirements. 20 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 • Video conferencing solutions (e.g. Polycom, TANDBERG (now Cisco) and Sony). These solutions are designed primarily for one-to-one or group-to-group communications with high levels of interactivity and collaboration. Like web conferencing, many organizations use both video conferencing and webcasting. Mediasite integrates with videoconferencing endpoints from Polycom and TANDBERG to record and manage interactive meetings, discussions and distance learning courses alongside other Mediasite content. • Authoring tools solutions (e.g. Polycom Accordent PresenterPLUS and TechSmith Camtasia ). Unlike webcasting, web conferencing or video conferencing, which are forms of online multimedia communication that capture and distribute/stream content, these solutions are production-oriented tools designed to create and edit multimedia content only. Some organizations will use these desktop tools to create training content by manually integrating existing audio, video, images, branding and other visual elements into a multimedia presentation which can then be published to a web or streaming server for distribution. This process can require a significant amount of production effort and user expertise in presentation authoring. Mediasite is capable of ingesting content produced by popular desktop tools like TechSmith’s Camtasia Relay or in video formats like Windows Media or H.264, allowing the content to be delivered, managed and secured alongside all other Mediasite content. • Online video services and virtual meeting platforms (e.g.INXPO, Livestream, ON24, Onstream Media, InterCall, Thomson Reuters, Unisfair and Wall Street Webcasting). These companies offer services or SaaS-based platforms that either allow audio and video to be captured from a presenter’s computer (often with supporting materials uploaded in advance), produced streaming video services or 2D/3D virtual environments that may or may not include rich media webcasts. Other vendors such as Echo360, Tegrity, Panopto, TechSmith, Crestron and Accordent Technologies (now Polycom), provide lecture capture or webcasting capabilities, but differ in their technology approach, particularly in the lecture capture arena. Mediasite is an appliance- or room-based platform for lecture capture. It provides a fully integrated system designed around an automated purpose-built recording appliance to capture, publish and manage rich media content. This transparent recording automation means no presenter intervention which leads to the broadest end-user adoption across campuses. Room-based appliances are capable of streaming live or on-demand and can leverage the full breadth of in-room audio/visual technology. A room-based platform like Mediasite also includes complete content management for captured multimedia presentations. Other lecture capture solutions are implemented as software applications designed to capture and publish rich media content, but dependent upon a third-party content management platform, typically the institution’s course management system. Software applications for lecture capture support on-demand streaming only and require in-room PC integration with varying levels of presenter intervention and recording knowledge which may lead to lower adoption rates throughout a given campus. Lastly, laptop-resident desktop tools capture and publish non-rich media (limited video and presentation graphics) and like software applications support only on-demand streaming and require a third-party content management platform. Desktop tools require the greatest degree of presenter intervention, technical confidence and support. While desktop tools are prevalent on many campuses, these three factors limit its practicality for campus-wide adoption. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services, or marketing to maintain and extend our current technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing, and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. 21 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 If potential customers or competitors use open source software to develop products that are competitive with our products and services, we may face decreased demand and pressure to reduce the prices for our products. The growing acceptance and prevalence of open source software may make it easier for competitors or potential competitors to develop software applications that compete with our products, or for customers and potential customers to internally develop software applications that they would otherwise have licensed from us. One of the aspects of open source software is that it can be modified or used to develop new software that competes with proprietary software applications, such as ours. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. As open source offerings become more prevalent, customers may defer or forego purchases of our products, which could reduce our sales and lengthen the sales cycle for our products or result in the loss of current customers to open source solutions. If we are unable to differentiate our products from competitive products based on open source software, demand for our products and services may decline, and we may face pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which would hurt our profitability. If our use of open-source is challenged and construes unfavorably, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We use open source software in our application suite. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering all or a portion of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our customers may use our products to share confidential and sensitive information, and if our system security is breached, our reputation could be harmed and we may lose customers. Our customers may use our products and services to share confidential and sensitive information, the security of which is critical to their business. Third parties may attempt to breach our security for customer hosted content or the networks of our customers. Customers may take inadequate security precautions with their sensitive information and may inadvertently make that information public. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security, and any breach could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. In addition, customers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to resolve problems caused by any breach, including litigation-related expenses if we are sued. Operational failures in our network infrastructure could disrupt our remote hosting services, cause us to lose clients and sales to potential clients and result in increased expenses and reduced revenues. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of the hosting services we provide to some of our clients. We are not equipped to provide full disaster recovery to all of our hosted clients. If there are operational failures in our network infrastructure that cause interruptions, slower response times, loss of data or extended loss of service for our remotely hosted clients, we may be required to issue credits or pay penalties, current clients may terminate their contracts or elect not to renew them and we may lose sales to potential clients. We have recently acquired additional hardware and systems and outsourced most aspects of our network infrastructure to two providers. As a result, we are reliant on third parties for network availability so outages may be outside our control and we may need to acquire additional hardware in order to provide an appropriate level of redundancy required by our customers. We license technology from third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. We license technology from third parties. The loss of, our inability to maintain, or changes in material terms of these licenses could result in increased cost or delayed sales of our software and services, or may cause us to remove features from our products or services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any individual licensed technology, some of the component technologies that we license from third parties could be difficult for us to replace. The impairment of these third-party relationships, especially if this impairment were to occur in unison, could result in delays in the delivery of our software and services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. This delay could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 The technology underlying our products and services is complex and may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products. The technology underlying our products is complex and includes software that is internally developed, software licensed from third parties and hardware purchased from third parties. These products have, and will in the future, contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We may not discover defects that affect our current or new applications or enhancements until after they are sold and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our complete liability exposure. Any defects in our products and services could: • Damage our reputation • Cause our customers to initiate product liability suits against us • Increase our product development resources • Cause customers to cancel orders or potential customers to purchase competitive products or services • Delay release or market acceptance of our products, or otherwise adversely impact our relationships with our customers • Cause us to allocate valuable engineering resources to fix our existing products, which may cause us to allocate fewer resources toward developing new products, or toward adding features to our existing products If we are viewed only as a commodity supplier, our margins and valuations will shrink. We need to provide value-added services in order to avoid being viewed as a commodity supplier. This entails building long-term customer relationships and developing features that will distinguish our products. Our technology is complex and is often confused with other products and technologies in the market place, including video conferencing, streaming and collaboration. We have developed a lower cost desktop software product to better address that market segment. Our desktop software product has more limited features compared to our existing products. While we believe we can preserve the market for our full-featured products, release of our desktop software product could reduce demand for products sold at higher prices. If we fail to build long-term customer relationships and develop features that distinguish our products in the market place, our margins will shrink and our stock may become less valuable to investors. Our success depends upon the proprietary aspects of our technology. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. We currently have four U.S. patents that have been issued to us. We may seek additional patents in the future. However, it is possible that: • Any patents acquired by or issued to us may not be broad enough to protect us • Any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents • Current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents • Effective patent protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our patent-related assets, may not be available in every country in which we do or plan to do business • We may not have the resources to enforce our patents or may determine the potential benefits are not worth the cost and risk of ultimately being unsuccessful 23 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 We also rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our technology. We have registered four U.S. and four foreign country trademarks. These forms of intellectual property protection are critically important to our ability to establish and maintain our competitive position. However, it is possible that: • Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights • Laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter others from developing similar technologies • Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our trademark, copyright or trade secret assets, may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries • Contractual agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information • Other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks • Policing unauthorized use of our services and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. If other parties bring infringement or other claims against us, we may incur significant costs or lose customers. Other companies may obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would limit our ability to conduct our business and could assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any legal proceedings, even if without merit, and intellectual property litigation could force us to cease using key technology, obtain a license or redesign our products. In the course of our business, we may sell certain systems to our customers, and in connection with such sale, we may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to these systems, which could harm our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales and other critical personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer. Most of our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past, sometimes to accept employment with companies that sell similar products or services to existing or potential customers of ours. There will likely be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future and such departures could result in additional competition, loss of customers or confusion in the marketplace. As we seek to replace such departures, or expand our business, the hiring of qualified sales, technical and support personnel has been difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives and the results of our operations. In addition, we do not have life insurance policies on any of our key employees. If we lose the services of any of our key employees, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause disruptions to our operations and may be unsuccessful. 24 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 Because our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international sales of our products. International product and service billings ranged from 25% to 27% of our total billings in each of the past two years and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our business in the future. However, in the future we may be unable to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including: • difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels or operations; • difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products, translating products into foreign languages and compliance with local hardware requirements; • the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property or requirements for product certification or other restrictions; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; • currency and exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries, including complexities in documenting letters of credit; and • economic or political changes in international markets. • difficulty in complying with international employment related requirements Our operating results may fluctuate due to our investment in Mediasite KK. We currently own approximately 23% of the common stock of Mediasite KK, our Japanese affiliate. Because our ownership interest exceeds 20%, our investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. This method requires us to record 23% of Mediasite KK’s income or loss each quarter. However, due to our less-than-majority interest, we do not exercise control over Mediasite KK’s operations. Therefore, a substantial portion of our overall profits and losses have been and will continue to be subject to events over which we have little control. If equity income had not been recorded, we would have incurred a loss of $263 thousand, rather than a profit of $157 thousand. We face risks associated with government regulation of the internet and related legal uncertainties. Currently, few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws generally applicable to businesses. Many Internet-related laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, in individual states and local jurisdictions and in other countries. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including encryption, network and information security, and the convergence of traditional communication services, such as telephone services, with Internet communications, taxes and wireless networks. These types of regulations could differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions both inside and outside the United States. Non-U.S. countries and political organizations may impose, or favor, more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In addition, state and local governments within the United States may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or more strict than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for, and the costs associated with, our products and services. The adoption of such laws and regulations may harm our business. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will result in further dilution. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders, and may reduce the trading price of our common stock. At September 30, 2012, we had less than 1 thousand of outstanding warrants and 846 thousand of outstanding stock options granted under our stock option plans, 555 thousand of which are immediately exercisable. To the extent that these stock options or warrants are exercised, dilution to the interests of our stockholders will likely occur. Additional options and warrants may be issued in the future at prices not less than 85% of the fair market value of the underlying security on the date of grant. Exercises of these options or warrants, or even the potential of their exercise 25 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. The holders of our options or our warrants are likely to exercise them at times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the securities. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the options and warrants will likely result in dilution of the equity represented by the then outstanding shares of common stock held by other stockholders. Holders of our options and warrants can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms, which are more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided, by these options and warrants. We may need to make acquisitions or form strategic alliances or partnerships in order to remain competitive in our market, and potential future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We may acquire or form strategic alliances or partnerships with other businesses in the future in order to remain competitive or to acquire new technologies. As a result of these acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships, we may need to integrate products, technologies, widely dispersed or overseas operations and distinct corporate cultures. The products, services or technologies of the acquired companies may need to be altered or redesigned in order to be made compatible with our software products and services, or the software architecture of our customers. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. An acquisition could expose us to unexpected liabilities, regulations or costs, including tax or other regulatory items impacting repatriation of profits. Our failure to successfully manage future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our stockholders would be diluted if we finance the acquisition, strategic alliances or partnerships by incurring convertible debt or issuing equity securities. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards may have limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes or other factors under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. If our net operating loss carryforwards are limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration. Any such income tax liability may adversely affect our future cash flow, financial position and financial results. Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented regulatory requirements and guidance, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. Although our non-affiliate market capitalization was less than $75 million at March 31, 2012 and we were therefore not required to have an auditor attestation on our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2012, SEC rules may in the future require us to have such an attestation if our non-affiliate market capitalization exceeds a certain threshold. We cannot assure that in the future our management or our auditors, will not find a material weakness in connection with our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot assure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price may decline. 26 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2012 Provisions of our charter documents and Maryland law could also discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Furthermore, our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors, which means that our stockholders may vote upon the retention of only one or two of our seven directors each year. Moreover, Maryland corporate law restricts certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders” and limits voting rights upon certain acquisitions of “control shares.” We face risks associated with government regulation of the internet and related legal uncertainties. Currently, few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws generally applicable to businesses. Many Internet-related laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, in individual states and local jurisdictions and in other countries. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including encryption, network and information security, and the convergence of traditional communication services, such as telephone services, with Internet communications, taxes and wireless networks. These types of regulations could differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions both inside and outside the United States. Non-U.S. countries and political organizations may impose, or favor, more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In addition, state and local governments within the United States may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or more strict than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for, and the costs associated with, our products and services. The adoption of such laws and regulations may harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 