ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not necessarily organized in order of priority or probability. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business Our business may suffer from risks related to acquisitions and potential future acquisitions. A substantial portion of our recent growth is due to acquisitions, and we continue to evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate, or otherwise realize anticipated benefits from, our recent acquisitions or any future acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate or otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions could adversely impact our long-term competitiveness and profitability. The integration of any future acquisitions will involve a number of risks that could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. In particular: • The integration plans for our acquisitions are based on benefits that involve assumptions as to future events, including leveraging our existing relationships with mobile phone operators and retailers, as well as general business and industry conditions, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. Unforeseen factors may offset components of our integration plans in whole or in part. As a result, our actual results may vary considerably, or be considerably delayed, compared to our estimates; • The integration process could disrupt the activities of the businesses that are being combined. The combination of companies requires, among other things, coordination of administrative and other functions. In addition, the loss of key employees, customers or vendors of acquired businesses could materially and adversely impact the integration of the acquired business; • The execution of our integration plans may divert the attention of our management from other key responsibilities; • We may assume unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; or • Our acquisition targets could fail to perform in accordance with our expectations at the time of purchase. Future acquisitions may be affected through the issuance of our Common Stock or securities convertible into our Common Stock, which could substantially dilute the ownership percentage of our current stockholders. In addition, shares issued in connection with future acquisitions could be publicly tradable, which could result in a material decrease in the market price of our Common Stock. A lack of business opportunities or financial or other resources may impede our ability to continue to expand at desired levels, and our failure to expand operations could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our expansion plans and opportunities are focused on four separate areas: (i) our network of owned and operated ATMs; (ii) outsourced ATM management contracts; (iii) our prepaid mobile airtime and other electronic payment services; and (iv) our money transfer and bill payment services. The continued expansion and development of our ATM business will depend on various factors including the following: • the demand for our ATM services in our current target markets; • the ability to locate appropriate ATM sites and obtain necessary approvals for the installation of ATMs; • the ability to install ATMs in an efficient and timely manner; • the expansion of our business into new countries as currently planned; • entering into additional card acceptance and ATM outsourcing agreements with banks; • the ability to renew existing agreements with customers; • the ability to obtain sufficient numbers of ATMs on a timely basis; and • the availability of financing for the expansion. We cannot predict the increase or decrease in the number of ATMs we manage under outsourcing agreements because this depends largely on the willingness of banks to enter into or maintain outsourcing contracts with us. Banks are very deliberate in negotiating these agreements, and the process of negotiating and signing outsourcing agreements typically takes several months. Banks evaluate a 16 Table of Contents wide range of matters when deciding to choose an outsource vendor and generally this decision is subject to extensive management analysis and approvals. The process is also affected by the legal and regulatory considerations of local countries, as well as local language complexities. These agreements tend to cover large numbers of ATMs, so significant increases and decreases in our pool of managed ATMs could result from entry into or termination of these management contracts. In this regard, the timing of both current and new contract revenues is uncertain and unpredictable. Increasing consolidation in the banking industry could make this process less predictable. We currently offer prepaid mobile airtime top-up and other electronic payment services in Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, North America and South America. We plan to expand in these and other markets by taking advantage of our existing relationships with mobile phone operators, banks and retailers and by offering additional electronic payment products. This expansion will depend on various factors, including the following: • the ability to negotiate new agreements, and renew existing agreements, in these markets with mobile phone operators, banks and retailers; • the acceptance and popularity of additional electronic payment products such as prepaid gift and debit cards, prepaid vouchers, transport payments, lottery payments and bill payments; • the continuation of the trend of increased use of electronic prepaid mobile airtime among mobile phone users; • the continuation of the trend of increased use of electronic money transfer and bill payment among immigrant workers; • the increase in the number of prepaid mobile phone users; and • the availability of financing for the expansion. In addition, our continued expansion may involve acquisitions that could divert our resources and management time and require integration of new assets with our existing networks and services and could require financing that we may not be able to obtain. Our ability to manage our rapid expansion effectively will require us eventually to expand our operating systems and employee base. An inability to do this could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to business cycles, seasonality and other outside factors that may negatively affect our business. The current recessionary economic environment or other outside factors could have a negative impact on mobile phone operators, retailers and our customers and could reduce the level of transactions, which could, in turn, negatively impact our financial results. If mobile phone operators and financial institutions experience decreased demand for their products and services, or if the locations where we provide services decrease in number, we will process fewer transactions, resulting in lower revenue. In addition, the recessionary economic environment could reduce the level of transactions taking place on our networks, which will have a negative impact on our business. Our experience is that the level of transactions on our networks is also subject to substantial seasonal variation. Transaction levels have consistently been much higher in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to increased use of ATMs, prepaid mobile airtime top-ups and money transfer services during the holiday season. Generally, the level of transactions drops in the first quarter, during which transaction levels are generally the lowest we experience during the year, which reduces the level of revenues that we record. Additionally, in the Money Transfer Segment, we experience increased transaction levels during the May through October timeframe coinciding with the increase in worker migration patterns. As a result of these seasonal variations, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially and could lead to volatility in the price of our shares. Additionally, economic or political instability, civil unrest, terrorism and natural disasters may make money transfers to, from or within a particular country more difficult. The inability to timely complete money transfers could adversely affect our business. A prolonged economic slowdown or lengthy or severe recession in the U.S. or elsewhere could harm our operations. Concerns over the slow economic recovery, level of U.S. national debt and structural deficits, European sovereign debt crisis, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation levels, energy costs and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, reduced business and consumer confidence and continued high unemployment, have negatively impacted the world economy. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could materially impact our results from operations. A recessionary economic environment could have a negative impact on mobile phone operators, retailers and our other customers and could reduce the level of transactions processed on our networks, which would, in turn, negatively impact our financial results. If mobile phone operators and financial institutions experience decreased demand for their products and services, or if the locations where we provide services decrease in number, we will process fewer transactions, resulting in lower revenue. Retaining the founder and key executives of our company, and of companies that we acquire, and finding and retaining qualified personnel is important to our continued success. 17 Table of Contents The development and implementation of our strategy has depended in large part on the co-founder of our company, Michael J. Brown. The retention of Mr. Brown is important to our continued success. In addition, the success of the expansion of businesses that we acquire may depend in large part upon the retention of the founders of those businesses. Our success also depends in part on our ability to hire and retain highly skilled and qualified management, operating, marketing, financial and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the markets where we conduct our business is intense and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to hire or retain the required personnel. Our officers and some of our key personnel have entered into service or employment agreements containing non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants, which grant incentive stock options and/or restricted stock with long-term vesting requirements. However, most of these contracts do not guarantee that these individuals will continue their employment with us. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. We have a substantial amount of debt and other contractual commitments, and the cost of servicing those obligations could adversely affect our business, and such risk could increase if we incur more debt. We may be required to prepay our obligations under the secured syndicated credit facility. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, total liabilities were $890.5 million, of which $286.1 million represents long-term debt obligations, and total assets were $1,409.4 million. Of our total long-term debt obligations, $161.0 million is comprised of contingently convertible debentures that, in certain situations, could be settled in stock. We may not have sufficient funds to satisfy all such obligations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. If the opportunity of a strategic acquisition arises or if we enter into new contracts that require the installation or servicing of infrastructure, such as processing centers, ATM machines or POS terminals on a faster pace than anticipated, we may be required to incur additional debt for these purposes and to fund our working capital needs, which we may not be able to obtain. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, including the following: • our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes may be limited or financing may be unavailable; • a substantial portion of our cash flows must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations and will not be available for use in our business; • our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • our high degree of indebtedness will make us more vulnerable to changes in general economic conditions and/or a downturn in our business, thereby making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; and • because a portion of our debt bears interest at a variable rate of interest, our actual debt service obligations could increase as a result of adverse changes in interest rates. If we fail to make required debt payments, or if we fail to comply with other covenants in our debt service agreements, we would be in default under the terms of these agreements. This default would permit the holders of the indebtedness to accelerate repayment of this debt and could cause defaults under other indebtedness that we have. Prepayment in full of the obligations under our Credit Facility may be required six months prior to any required repurchase date under our $175 million principal amount 3.50% Convertible Debentures Due 2025, unless we are able to demonstrate that either: (i) we could borrow unsubordinated funded debt equal to the principal amount of the applicable convertible debentures while remaining in compliance with the financial covenants in the Credit Facility, or (ii) we will have sufficient liquidity (as determined by the administrative agent and the lenders). Holders of the 3.50% debentures have the option to require us to purchase their debentures at par on October 15, 2012, 2015 and 2020, or upon a change in control of the Company. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may adversely affect us. The Credit Facility contains four financial covenants that we must meet as defined in the agreement: (1) total debt to EBITDA ratio, (2) senior secured debt to EBITDA ratio, (3) EBITDA to fixed charge coverage ratio and (4) minimum Consolidated Net Worth. To remain in compliance with our debt covenants, we may be required to increase EBITDA, repay debt, or both. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets, liquidity or EBITDA to meet or avoid these obligations, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our ability to secure additional financing for growth or to refinance any of our existing debt is also dependent upon the availability of credit in the marketplace, which has experienced severe disruptions due to the recent economic crisis. If we are unable to secure additional financing or such financing is not available at acceptable terms, we may be unable to secure financing for growth or refinance our debt obligations, if necessary. 18 Table of Contents In the event that we need debt financing in the future, recent uncertainty in the credit markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. In the event we were to require additional debt financing in the future, the ongoing uncertainty in the credit markets, including the European sovereign debt crisis, could materially impact our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. The inability to access debt financing on reasonable terms could materially impact our ability to make acquisitions, refinance existing debt or materially expand our business in the future. Increases in interest rates will adversely impact our results from operations. For the $127.0 million outstanding balance of the term loan, as well as borrowings incurred under our revolving credit facility and other variable rate borrowing arrangements, increases in variable interest rates will increase the amount of interest expense that we pay for our borrowings and have a negative impact on our results from operations. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges related to long-lived assets and goodwill recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Our total assets include approximately $541.5 million, or 38% of total assets, in goodwill and acquired intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions. We assess our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. to determine whether they are impaired. In 2010, we determined that certain goodwill assets of our epay businesses in the U.K., Spain and Romania were impaired and we recorded $70.9 million of non-cash impairment charges. In 2008, we determined that certain goodwill and intangible assets of our Spanish epay business and our RIA money transfer business were impaired and we recorded a total of $230.0 million of non-cash impairment charges, including the adjustment in first quarter 2009 when the measurement was completed. If operating results in any of our key markets, including the U.S., U.K., Germany, Spain or Australia, deteriorate or our plans do not progress as expected when we acquired these entities or if capital markets depress our value or that of similar companies, we may be required to record additional impairment write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Like other participants in the money transfer industry, as a result of downturns in certain labor markets, the current recessionary economic environment and immigration developments, our volume of money transfers from the U.S. to Mexico have declined as have related revenues. These issues have also resulted in certain competitors lowering transaction fees and foreign currency exchange spreads in certain markets where we do business in an attempt to limit the impact on money transfer volumes. For 2010, money transfer transactions to Mexico, which represented approximately 21% of total money transfer transactions, decreased by 8%. If this trend continues or worsens, or we experience similar trends in our international business, we may be required to record additional impairment write-downs of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long lived assets associated with the Money Transfer Segment. The processes and systems we employ may be subject to patent protection by other parties. In certain countries, including the U.S., patent protection legislation permits the protection of processes and systems. We employ processes and systems in various markets that have been used in the industry by other parties for many years, and which we or other companies that use the same or similar processes and systems consider to be in the public domain. However, we are aware that certain parties believe they hold patents that cover some of the processes and systems employed in the prepaid processing industry in the U.S. and elsewhere. We believe the processes and systems we use have been in the public domain prior to the patents we are aware of. The question of whether a process or system is in the public domain is a legal determination, and if this issue is litigated we cannot be certain of the outcome of any such litigation. If a person were to assert that it holds a patent covering any of the processes or systems we use, we would be required to defend ourselves against such claim. If unsuccessful, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement, which could be trebled if the infringement was found to be willful. We may also be required to seek a license to continue to use the processes or systems. Such a license may require either a single payment or an ongoing license fee. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain a license which is reasonable in fee and scope. If a patent owner is unwilling to grant such a license, or we decide not to obtain such a license, we may be required to modify our processes and systems to avoid future infringement. Any such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our prepaid processing business in any affected markets and could result in our reconsidering the rate of expansion of this business in those markets. We conduct a significant portion of our business in Central and Eastern European countries, and we have subsidiaries in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South America, where the risk of continued political, economic and regulatory change that could impact our operating results is greater than in the U.S. or Western Europe. We have subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South America. We expect to continue to expand our operations to other countries in these regions. We sell software in many other markets in the developing world. Some of these countries have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years and the risk of new, unforeseen changes in these countries remains greater than in the U.S. or Western Europe. In particular, changes in laws or regulations or in the 19 Table of Contents interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. For example, currently there are no limitations on the repatriation of profits from any of the countries in which we have subsidiaries (although U.S. tax laws discourage repatriation), but foreign currency exchange control restrictions, taxes or limitations may be imposed or increased in the future with regard to repatriation of earnings and investments from these countries. If exchange control restrictions, taxes or limitations are imposed, our ability to receive dividends or other payments from affected subsidiaries could be reduced, which may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, corporate, contract, property, insolvency, competition, securities and other laws and regulations in Central Europe have been, and continue to be, substantially revised. Therefore, the interpretation and procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory systems are in the process of being developed and defined, and existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. Also, in some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided for under these laws and regulations in a reasonably timely manner, if at all. Transmittal of data by electronic means and telecommunications is subject to specific regulation in most Central European countries. Although these regulations have not had a material impact on our business to date, changes in these regulations, including taxation or limitations on transfers of data across national borders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. We conduct business in many international markets with complex and evolving tax rules, including value added tax rules, which subjects us to international tax compliance risks. While we obtain advice from legal and tax advisors as necessary to help assure compliance with tax and regulatory matters, most tax jurisdictions that we operate in have complex and subjective rules regarding the valuation of intercompany services, cross-border payments between affiliated companies and the related effects on income tax, value-added tax (“VAT”), transfer tax and share registration tax. Our foreign subsidiaries frequently undergo VAT reviews, and from time to time undergo comprehensive tax reviews and may be required to make additional tax payments should the review result in different interpretations, allocations or valuations of our services. As allowable under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), the interest deduction from our convertible debentures is based on a comparable interest rate for a traditional, nonconvertible, fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms. This allowable deduction is in excess of the stated interest rate. This deduction may be deferred, limited or eliminated under certain conditions. The U.S Treasury regulations contain an anti-abuse regulation, set forth in Section 1.1275-2(g), that grants the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service authority to depart from the regulations if a result is achieved which is unreasonable in light of the original issue discount provisions of the Code, including Section 163(e). The anti-abuse regulation further provides that the Commissioner may, under this authority, treat a contingent payment feature of a debt instrument as if it were a separate position. If such an analysis were applied to our convertible debentures and ultimately sustained, our deductions attributable to the convertible debentures could be limited to the stated interest thereon. The scope of application of the anti-abuse regulations is unclear. However, we are of the view that application of the contingent payment debt instrument regulations to our convertible debentures is a reasonable result such that the anti-abuse regulation should not apply. If a contrary position was asserted and ultimately sustained, our tax deductions would be severely diminished with a resulting adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to service the convertible debentures. Under the Code, no deduction is allowed for interest expense in excess of $5 million on convertible subordinated indebtedness incurred to acquire stock or assets of another corporation reduced by any interest paid on other obligations which have provided consideration for an acquisition of stock in another corporation. If a significant portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debentures, either alone or together with other debt proceeds, was used for a domestic acquisition and the convertible debentures and other debt, if any, were deemed to be corporate acquisition indebtedness as defined in Section 279 of the Code, interest deductions for tax purposes in excess of $5 million on such debt reduced by any interest paid on other obligations which have provided consideration for an acquisition of stock in another corporation would be disallowed. This would adversely impact our cash flow and our ability to pay down the convertible debentures. We previously applied a significant portion of the proceeds from our December 2004 issuance of 1.625% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2024 to acquisitions of foreign corporations. In prior years, the interest expense attributable to these acquisitions exhausted all of the $5 million annual interest expense deduction permitted under the Code for certain convertible subordinated debt incurred for corporation acquisitions. In 2009, the repurchase of the 1.625% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2024 significantly reduced interest expense for federal income tax purposes and, consequently, a larger portion of the annual interest expense subject to limitation was able to be deducted. Although the portion of interest expense able to be deducted increased, significant interest deductions would be disallowed with respect to our October 2005 3.50% Convertible Debentures Due 2025 if Section 279 of the Code applied. We do not currently anticipate that this limitation will apply but there can be no assurance of that fact. 20 Table of Contents In the past, the U.S. Senate has drafted proposed tax relief legislation that contained a provision that would eliminate the comparable interest rate deduction on future issuances of convertible debentures such as ours. Legislation containing this provision has not been passed, however, we cannot predict if there will be future tax legislation proposed and approved that would eliminate the comparable interest rate deduction. Increases in taxes could negatively impact our operating results. As a result of the recent economic downturn, tax receipts have decreased and/or government spending has increased in many of the countries in which we operate. Consequently, governments may increase tax rates or implement new taxes in order to compensate for gaps between tax revenues and expenditures. Additionally, governments may prohibit or restrict the use of certain legal structures designed to minimize taxes. Any such tax increases, whether borne by us or our customers, could negatively impact our operating results or the demand for our products. Because we are a multinational company conducting a complex business in many markets worldwide, we are subject to legal and operational risks related to staffing and management, as well as a broad array of local legal and regulatory requirements. Operating outside of the U.S. creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international operations, as well as complying with local legal and regulatory requirements. Because we operate financial transaction processing networks that offer new products and services to customers, the laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate are subject to rapid change. Although we have local staff in countries in which we deem it appropriate, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with all applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, data protection, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified in ways that may adversely affect our business. Because we derive our revenues from a multitude of countries with different currencies, our business is affected by local inflation and foreign currency exchange rates and policies. We attempt to match any assets denominated in a currency with liabilities denominated in the same currency. However, a significant amount of our cash outflows, including the acquisition of ATMs, executive salaries, certain long-term contracts and a significant portion of our debt obligations, are made in U.S. dollars, while most of our revenues are denominated in other currencies. As exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the euro, and other currencies fluctuate, the translation effect of these fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition as reported in U.S. dollars. Exchange rate policies have not always allowed for the free conversion of currencies at the market rate. Future fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on our results. Our Money Transfer Segment is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because our customers deposit funds in one currency at our retail and agent locations worldwide and we typically deliver funds denominated in a different, destination country currency. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate a portion of this risk, we cannot eliminate all of the exposure to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates for the period between collection and disbursement of the money transfers. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party to which our management and board of directors opposes. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; • supermajority voting requirements to amend the provision in our certificate of incorporation providing for the classification of our directors into three such classes; • non-cumulative voting for directors; • control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and 21 Table of Contents • advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. We have also approved a stockholders’ rights agreement (the ‘‘Rights Agreement’’) between Euronet and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., (subsequently renamed Computershare Limited) as Rights Agent. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, holders of our common stock are entitled to purchase one one-thousandth (1/1,000) of a share (a ‘‘Unit’’) of Junior Preferred Stock at a price of $57.00 per Unit upon certain events. The purchase price is subject to appropriate adjustment for stock splits and other similar events. Generally, in the event a person or entity acquires, or initiates a tender offer to acquire, at least 15% of Euronet’s then-outstanding common stock, the Rights will become exercisable for common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right, or effectively at one-half of Euronet’s then-current stock price. The existence of the Rights Plan may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. Our directors and officers, together with the entities with which they are associated, owned approximately 9% of our Common Stock as of December 31, 2010, giving them significant control over decisions related to our Company. This control includes the ability to influence the election of other directors of our Company and to cast a large block of votes with respect to virtually all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This concentration of control may have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions or a potential change of control of our Company. We are authorized to issue up to a total of 90 million shares of Common Stock, potentially diluting equity ownership of current holders and the share price of our Common Stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our Common Stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue Common Stock for business purposes that may arise as deemed advisable by our Board. These purposes could include, among other things, (i) to declare future stock dividends or stock splits, which may increase the liquidity of our shares; (ii) the sale of stock to obtain additional capital or to acquire other companies or businesses, which could enhance our growth strategy or allow us to reduce debt if needed; (iii) for use in additional stock incentive programs and (iv) for other bona fide purposes. Our Board of Directors may issue the available authorized shares of Common Stock without notice to, or further action by, our stockholders, unless stockholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock may significantly dilute the equity ownership of the current holders of our Common Stock. Further, over the course of time, all of the issued shares have the potential to be publicly traded, perhaps in large blocks. This may result in dilution of the market price of the Common Stock. An additional 10.0 million shares of Common Stock, representing 20% of the shares outstanding as of December 31, 2010, could be added to our total Common Stock outstanding through the exercise of options or the issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock pursuant to existing convertible debt and other agreements. Once issued, these shares of Common Stock could be traded into the market and result in a decrease in the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had an aggregate of 5.6 million options and restricted stock awards outstanding held by our directors, officers and employees, which entitles these holders to acquire an equal number of shares of our Common Stock upon exercise. Of this amount, 1.7 million options are vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2010. Approximately 0.1 million additional shares of our Common Stock may be issued in connection with our employee stock purchase plan. Upon the occurrence of certain events, another 4.3 million shares of Common Stock could be issued upon conversion of the Company’s Convertible Debentures issued in October 2005; in certain situations, the number of shares issuable could be higher. Accordingly, based on current trading prices of our Common Stock, approximately 10.0 million shares could potentially be added to our total current Common Stock outstanding through the exercise of options or the issuance of additional shares, which could adversely impact the trading price for our stock. Of the 5.6 million total options and restricted stock awards outstanding, an aggregate of 2.9 million options and restricted shares are held by persons who may be deemed to be our affiliates and who would be subject to Rule 144. Thus, upon exercise of their options or sale of shares for which restrictions have lapsed, these affiliates’ shares would be subject to the trading restrictions imposed by Rule 144. The remainder of the common shares issuable under option and restricted stock arrangements would be freely tradable in the public market. Over the course of time, all of the issued shares have the potential to be publicly traded, perhaps in large blocks. 22 Table of Contents Our competition in the EFT Processing Segment, epay Segment and Money Transfer Segment includes large, well-financed companies and financial institutions larger than us with earlier entry into the market. As a result, we may lack the financial resources and access to capital needed to capture increased market share. EFT Processing Segment— Our principal EFT Processing competitors include ATM networks owned by banks and national switches consisting of consortiums of local banks that provide outsourcing and transaction services only to banks and independent ATM deployers in that country. Large, well-financed companies offer ATM network and outsourcing services that compete with us in various markets. In some cases, these companies also sell a broader range of card and processing services than we, and are in some cases, willing to discount ATM services to obtain large contracts covering a broad range of services. Competitive factors in our EFT Processing Segment include network availability and response time, breadth of service offering, price to both the bank and to its customers, ATM location and access to other networks. For our ITM product line, we are a leading supplier of electronic financial transaction processing software for the IBM iSeries platform in a largely fragmented market, which is made up of competitors that offer a variety of solutions that compete with our products, ranging from single applications to fully integrated electronic financial processing software. Additionally, for ITM, other industry suppliers service the software requirements of large mainframe systems and UNIX-based platforms, and accordingly are not considered competitors. We have specifically targeted customers consisting of financial institutions that operate their back office systems with the IBM iSeries. Our software solutions business has multiple types of competitors that compete across all EFT software components in the following areas: (i) ATM, network and POS software systems, (ii) Internet banking software systems, (iii) credit card software systems, (iv) mobile banking systems, (v) mobile operator solutions, (vi) telephone banking and (vii) full EFT software. Competitive factors in the software solutions business include price, technology development and the ability of software systems to interact with other leading products. epay Segment— We face competition in the epay business in all of our markets. A few multinational companies operate in several of our markets, and we therefore compete with them in a number of countries. In other markets, our competition is from smaller, local companies. Major retailers with high volumes are in a position to demand a larger share of commissions or to negotiate directly with the mobile phone operators, which may compress our margins. Additionally, certain of our content providers, including mobile phone operators have shown interest in entering into direct contracts with retailers and/or developing processing technology that could diminish or eliminate the need for intermediate processors and distributors. Money Transfer Segment— Our primary competitors in the money transfer and bill payment business include other independent processors and electronic money transmitters, as well as certain major national and regional banks, financial institutions and independent sales organizations. Our competitors include The Western Union Company, MoneyGram International Inc. and others, some of which are larger than we are and have greater resources and access to capital for expansion than we have. This may allow them to offer better pricing terms to customers, which may result in a loss of our current or potential customers or could force us to lower our prices. Either of these actions could have an adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies that provide improved functionality and features to their product and service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our product and services offerings less desirable, resulting in the loss of customers or a reduction in the price we could demand for our services. In addition to traditional money payment services, new technologies are emerging that may effectively compete with traditional money payment services, such as stored-value cards, debit networks and web-based services. Our continued growth depends upon our ability to compete effectively with these alternative technologies. The growth and profitability of our epay business is dependent on certain factors that vary from market to market. Our epay Segment derives revenues based on processing fees and commissions from mobile phone operators and other content providers. Growth in our prepaid mobile business in any given market is driven by a number of factors, including the overall pace of growth in the prepaid mobile phone market which is impacted by competing postpaid services, our market share of the retail distribution capacity, the level of commission that is paid to the various intermediaries in the prepaid mobile airtime distribution chain, and the value provided to the retailers through the types of products offered and the level of integration with their systems. Also, competition among prepaid mobile distributors results in retailer churn and the reduction of commissions paid by prepaid content providers, although a portion of such reductions can be passed along to retailers. In the last year, processing fees and commissions per transaction have declined in most markets, and we expect that trend to continue. We have been able to improve our results despite that trend due to substantial growth in the number of transactions, driven by acquisitions and organic growth. If we cannot continue to increase our transaction levels and per-transaction fees and commissions continue to decline, the combined impact of these factors could adversely impact our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Our epay and money transfer businesses may be susceptible to fraud and/or credit risks occurring at the retailer and/or consumer level. In our epay Segment, we contract with retailers that accept payment on our behalf, which we then transfer to a trust or other operating account for payment to content providers. In the event a retailer does not transfer to us payments that it receives for prepaid content sales, whether as a result of fraud, insolvency, billing delays or otherwise, we are responsible to the content provider for the cost of the product sold. We can provide no assurance that retailer fraud or insolvency will not increase in the future or that any proceeds we receive under our credit enhancement insurance policies will be adequate to cover losses resulting from retailer fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to our money transfer business, our business is primarily conducted through our agent network, which provides money transfer services directly to consumers at retail locations. Our agents collect funds directly from consumers and in turn we collect from the agents the proceeds due to us resulting from the money transfer transactions. Therefore, we have credit exposure to our agents. Additionally, our Company-owned stores transact a significant amount of business in cash. Although we have safeguards in place, cash transactions have a higher exposure to fraud and theft than other types of transactions. The failure of agents owing us significant amounts to remit funds to us or to repay such amounts, or the loss of cash in our stores could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we typically enter into short-term contracts with content providers and retailers, our epay business is subject to the risk of non-renewal of those contracts, or renewal under less favorable terms. Our contracts with content providers to distribute and process content, including prepaid mobile airtime recharge services, typically have terms of less than three years. Many of those contracts may be canceled by either party upon three months’ notice. Our contracts with content providers are not exclusive, so these providers may enter into contracts with other service providers. In addition, our service contracts with major retailers typically have terms of one to three years, and our contracts with smaller retailers typically may be canceled by either party upon three to six months’ notice. The cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of our significant content provider or retail contracts, or of a large enough group of our contracts with smaller retailers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The renewal of contracts under less favorable payment terms, commission terms or other terms could have a material adverse impact on our working capital requirements and/or results from operations. In addition, our contracts generally permit operators to reduce our fees at any time. Commission revenue or fee reductions by any of the content providers could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The growth and profitability of our epay business may be adversely affected by changes in state, federal or foreign laws, rules and regulations. As we continue to expand our electronic payment product offerings, certain of those products may become regulated by state, federal or foreign laws, rules and regulations. Certain new product offerings may be considered to be money transfer related products which would require licensure for entities distributing or processing such products. If such products become more highly regulated and ultimately require licensure, our epay business may be adversely affected. Our continued growth in our epay business may be contingent on product differentiation and our ability to offer new electronic payment products. The prepaid marketplace is currently experiencing high growth in the differentiation of product offerings. While our epay business is focused on expanding and differentiating its suite of prepaid product offerings on a global basis, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into relationships on favorable terms with additional content providers or renew or expand current relationships and contracts on favorable terms. Inability to continue to grow our suite of electronic payment product offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The stability and growth of our EFT Processing Segment depend on maintaining our current card acceptance and ATM management agreements with banks and international card organizations, and on securing new arrangements for card acceptance and ATM management. The stability and future growth of our EFT Processing Segment depends in part on our ability to sign card acceptance and ATM management agreements with banks and international card organizations. Card acceptance agreements allow our ATMs to accept credit and debit cards issued by banks and international card organizations. ATM management agreements generate service income from our management of ATMs for banks. These agreements are the primary source of our ATM business. These agreements have expiration dates, and banks and international card organizations are generally not obligated to renew them. In some cases, banks may terminate their contracts prior to the expiration of their terms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to sign or maintain these agreements on terms and conditions acceptable to us or whether those international card 24 Table of Contents organizations will continue to permit our ATMs to accept their credit and debit cards. The inability to continue to sign or maintain these agreements, or to continue to accept the credit and debit cards of local banks and international card organizations at our ATMs in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition or results of operations. Our operating results depend in part on the volume of transactions on ATMs in our network and the fees we can collect from processing these transactions. We generally have little control over the ATM transaction fees established in the markets where we operate, and therefore, cannot control any potential reductions in these fees. Transaction fees from banks and international card organizations for transactions processed on our ATMs have historically accounted for a substantial majority of our revenues. These fees are set by agreement among all banks in a particular market. The future operating results of our ATM business depend on the following factors: • the increased issuance of credit and debit cards; • the increased acceptance of our ATM processing and management services in our target markets; • the maintenance of the level of transaction fees we receive; • the installation of larger numbers of ATMs; and • the continued use of our ATMs by credit and debit cardholders. The amount of fees we receive per transaction is set in various ways in the markets in which we do business. We have card acceptance agreements or ATM management agreements with some banks under which fees are set. However, we derive the bulk of our revenues in most markets from ‘‘interchange fees’’ that are set by the central ATM processing switch. The banks that participate in these switches set the interchange fee, and we are not in a position in any market to greatly influence these fees, which may increase or decrease over time. A significant decrease in the interchange fee in any market could adversely affect our results in that market. Although we believe that the volume of transactions in developing countries may increase due to growth in the number of cards being issued by banks in these markets, we anticipate that transaction levels on any given ATM in developing markets will not increase significantly. We can attempt to improve the levels of transactions on our ATM network overall by acquiring good sites for our ATMs, eliminating poor locations, entering new less-developed markets and adding new transactions to the sets of transactions that are available on our ATMs. However, we may not be successful in materially increasing transaction levels through these measures. Per-transaction fees paid by international card organizations have declined in certain markets in recent years and competitive factors have required us to reduce the transaction fees we charge customers. If we cannot continue to increase our transaction levels and per-transaction fees generally decline, our results would be adversely affected. Developments in electronic financial transactions could materially reduce our transaction levels and revenues. Certain developments in the field of electronic financial transactions may reduce the need for ATMs, prepaid mobile phone POS terminals and money transfer agents. These developments may reduce the transaction levels that we experience on our networks in the markets where they occur. Financial institutions, retailers and agents could elect to increase fees to their customers for using our services, which may cause a decline in the use of our services and have an adverse effect on our revenues. If transaction levels over our existing network of ATMs, POS terminals, agents and other distribution methods do not increase, growth in our revenues will depend primarily on increased capital investment for new sites and developing new markets, which reduces the margin we realize from our revenues. The mobile phone industry is a rapidly evolving area, in which technological developments, in particular the development of new distribution methods or services, may affect the demand for other services in a dramatic way. The development of any new technology that reduces the need or demand for prepaid mobile airtime could materially and adversely affect our business. In some cases, we are dependent upon international card organizations and national transaction processing switches to provide assistance in obtaining settlement from card issuers of funds relating to transactions on our ATMs. Our ATMs dispense cash relating to transactions on credit and debit cards issued by banks. We have in place arrangements for the settlement to us of all of those transactions, but in some cases, we do not have a direct relationship with the card-issuing bank and rely for settlement on the application of rules that are administered by international card associations (such as Visa or MasterCard) or national transaction processing switching networks. If a bankcard association fails to settle transactions in accordance with those rules, we are dependent upon cooperation from such organizations or switching networks to enforce our right of settlement against such banks or card associations. Failure by such organizations or switches to provide the required cooperation could result in our inability to obtain settlement of funds relating to transactions and adversely affect our business. 25 Table of Contents Because our business is highly dependent on the proper operation of our computer network and telecommunications connections, significant technical disruptions to these systems would adversely affect our revenues and financial results. Our business involves the operation and maintenance of a sophisticated computer network and telecommunications connections with financial institutions, mobile phone operators, retailers and agents. This, in turn, requires the maintenance of computer equipment and infrastructure, including telecommunications and electrical systems, and the integration and enhancement of complex software applications. Our ATM segment also uses a satellite-based system that is susceptible to the risk of satellite failure. There are operational risks inherent in this type of business that can result in the temporary shutdown of part or all of our processing systems, such as failure of electrical supply, failure of computer hardware and software errors. Excluding Germany, transactions in the EFT Processing Segment are processed through our Athens, Budapest, Belgrade, Beijing, Mumbai and Karachi processing centers. Transactions in the epay Segment are processed through our Basildon, Martinsried, Milan and Kansas City, Missouri processing centers. Transactions in our Money Transfer Segment are processed through our Buena Park, California processing center. Any operational problem in these centers may have a significant adverse impact on the operation of our networks. Even with disaster recovery procedures in place, these risks cannot be eliminated entirely, and any technical failure that prevents operation of our systems for a significant period of time will prevent us from processing transactions during that period of time and will directly and adversely affect our revenues and financial results. We are subject to the risks of liability for fraudulent bankcard and other card transactions involving a breach in our security systems, breaches of our information security policies or safeguards, as well as for ATM theft and vandalism. We capture, transmit, handle and store sensitive information in conducting and managing electronic, financial and mobile transactions, such as card information and PIN numbers. These businesses involve certain inherent security risks, in particular: the risk of electronic interception and theft of the information for use in fraudulent or other card transactions by persons outside the Company or by our own employees; and the use of fraudulent cards on our network of owned or outsourced ATMs and POS devices. We incorporate industry-standard encryption technology and processing methodology into our systems and software, and maintain controls and procedures regarding access to our computer systems by employees and others, to maintain high levels of security. Although this technology and methodology decrease security risks, they cannot be eliminated entirely as criminal elements apply increasingly sophisticated technology to attempt to obtain unauthorized access to the information handled by ATM and electronic financial transaction networks. In addition, the cost and timeframes required for implementation of new technology may result in a time lag between availability of such technology and our adoption of it. Further, our controls, procedures and technology may not be able to detect when there is a breach, causing a delay in our ability to mitigate it. The recent economic crisis increases the risk that criminals will attempt such data theft. Any breach in our security systems could result in the perpetration of fraudulent financial transactions for which we may bear the liability. We are insured against various risks, including theft and negligence, but such insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations that may leave us bearing some or all of any losses arising from security breaches. We also collect, transfer and retain consumer data as part of our money transfer business. These activities are subject to certain consumer privacy laws and regulations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions where our money transfer services are offered. We maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. Despite these safeguards, there remains a risk that these safeguards could be breached resulting in improper access to, and disclosure of, sensitive consumer information. Breaches of our security policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data could expose us to regulatory enforcement action, subject us to litigation, limit our ability to provide money transfer services and/or cause harm to our reputation. In addition to electronic fraud issues and breaches of our information security policies and safeguards, the possible theft and vandalism of ATMs present risks for our ATM business. We install ATMs at high-traffic sites and consequently our ATMs are exposed to theft and vandalism. Although we are insured against such risks, deductibles, exclusions or limitations in such insurance may leave us bearing some or all of any losses arising from theft or vandalism of ATMs. In addition, we have experienced increases in claims under our insurance, which has increased our insurance premiums. We could incur substantial losses if one of the third party depository institutions we use in our operations were to fail. As part of our business operations we maintain cash balances at third party depository institutions. We could incur substantial losses if a financial institution in which we have significant deposits fails. 26 Table of Contents We are required under German law and the rules of financial transaction switching networks in all of our markets to have ‘‘sponsors’’ to operate ATMs and switch ATM transactions. Our failure to secure ‘‘sponsor’’ arrangements in Germany or any other market could prevent us from doing business in that market. Under German law, only a licensed financial institution may operate ATMs. Because we are not a licensed financial institution we are required to have a ‘‘sponsor’’ bank to conduct our German ATM operations. In addition, in all of our markets, our ATMs are connected to national financial transaction switching networks owned or operated by banks, and to other international financial transaction switching networks operated by organizations such as Citibank, Visa and MasterCard. The rules governing these switching networks require any company sending transactions through these switches to be a bank or a technical service processor that is approved and monitored by a bank. As a result, the operation of our ATM network in all of our markets depends on our ability to secure these ‘‘sponsor’’ arrangements with financial institutions. To date, we have been successful in reaching contractual arrangements that have permitted us to operate in all of our target markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in reaching these arrangements, and it is possible that our current arrangements will not continue to be renewed. If we are unable to secure “sponsor” arrangements in Germany or any other market, we could be prevented from doing business in the applicable market. Competition in our EFT Processing Segment has increased over the last several years, increasing the risk that certain of our long-term bank outsourcing contracts may be terminated or not renewed upon expiration. The developing markets in which we have done business have matured over the years, resulting in increasing competition. In addition, as consolidation of financial institutions in Central and Eastern Europe continues, certain of our customers have established or are establishing internal ATM management and processing capabilities. As a result of these developments, negotiations regarding renewal of contracts have become increasingly challenging and in certain cases we have reduced fees to extend contracts beyond their original terms. In certain other cases, contracts have been, and in the future may be, terminated by financial institutions resulting in a substantial reduction in revenue. Contract termination payments, if any, may be inadequate to replace revenues and operating income associated with these contracts. Although we have historically considered the risk of non-renewal of major contracts to be relatively low because of complex interfaces and operational procedures established for those contracts, the risk of non-renewal or early termination is increasing. Our operating results in the money transfer business depend in part on continued worker immigration patterns, our ability to expand our share of the existing electronic market and to expand into new markets and our ability to continue complying with regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”), Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FINCEN”), PATRIOT Act regulations or any other existing or future regulations that impact any aspect of our money transfer business. Our money transfer business primarily focuses on workers who migrate to foreign countries in search of employment and then send a portion of their earnings to family members in their home countries. Changes in U.S. and foreign government policies or enforcement toward immigration may have a negative effect on immigration in the U.S. and other countries, which could also have an adverse impact on our money transfer revenues. Both U.S. and foreign regulators have become increasingly aggressive in the enforcement of the various regulatory regimes applicable to our businesses and the imposition of fines and penalties in the event of violations. Our ability to continue complying with the requirements of OFAC, BSA, FINCEN, the PATRIOT Act and other regulations (both U.S. and foreign) is important to our success in achieving growth and an inability to do this could have an adverse impact on our revenues and earnings. Anti-money laundering regulations require us to be responsible for the compliance by agents with such regulations. Although we have training and compliance programs in place, we cannot be certain our agents will comply with such regulations and we may be held responsible for their failure to comply, resulting in fines and penalties. Future growth and profitability depend upon expansion within the markets in which we currently operate and the development of new markets for our money transfer services. Our expansion into new markets is dependent upon our ability to successfully integrate RIA into our existing operations, to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to satisfy market demand. We may not have adequate financial and technological resources to expand our distribution channels and product applications to satisfy these demands, which may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve expected growth in revenues and earnings. Changes in state, federal or foreign laws, rules and regulations could impact the money transfer industry, making it more difficult for our customers to initiate money transfers. We are subject to regulation by the U.S. states in which we operate, by the U.S. federal government and by the governments of the other countries in which we operate. Changes in the laws, rules and regulations of these governmental entities, and our ability to obtain or retain required licensure, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 27 Table of Contents Changes in banking industry regulation and practice could make it more difficult for us and our agents to maintain depository accounts with banks. The banking industry, in light of increased regulatory oversight, is continually examining its business relationships with companies who offer money transfer services and with retail agents who collect and remit cash collected from end consumers. Should banks decide to not offer depository services to companies engaged in processing money transfer transactions, or to retail agents who collect and remit cash from end customers, our ability to administer and collect fees from money transfer transactions could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to maintain our money transfer agent and correspondent networks, our business may be adversely affected. Our money transfer based revenues are primarily generated through the use of our agent and correspondent networks. Transaction volumes at existing locations may increase over time and new agents provide us with additional revenues. If agents or correspondents decide to leave our network or if we are unable to sign new agents or correspondents, our revenue and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. Our agents and correspondents are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that vary significantly, depending on the legal jurisdiction. Changes in these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to maintain the networks or the cost of providing money transfer services. In addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue due to various factors, including increased competition. Because our agents and correspondents are third parties that may sell products and provide services in addition to our money transfer services, they may encounter business difficulties unrelated to the provision of our services, which may cause the agents or correspondents to reduce their number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. If consumer confidence in our money transfer business or brands declines, our business may be adversely affected. Our money transfer business relies on consumer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide efficient and reliable money transfer services. A decline in consumer confidence in our business or brands, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, may adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn be expected to adversely impact our business. Our money transfer service offerings are dependent on financial institutions to provide such offerings. Our money transfer business involves transferring funds internationally and is dependent upon foreign and domestic financial institutions, including our competitors, to execute funds transfers and foreign currency transactions. Changes to existing regulations of financial institution operations, such as those designed to combat terrorism or money laundering, could require us to alter our operating procedures in a manner that increases our cost of doing business or to terminate certain product offerings. In addition, as a result of existing regulations and/or changes to those regulations, financial institutions could decide to cease providing the services on which we depend, requiring us to terminate certain product offerings. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Act, that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The act also requires the CFTC to institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. As the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the Dodd-Frank Act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of foreign currency related derivatives. 28 Table of Contents If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 