Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below encompass many of the risks that could affect our company. Not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arrive and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. Risks Relating to Our Technology We might not successfully commercialize our technology, and commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Process may never be successfully constructed or operated by ourselves or our licensees. We do not have significant experience managing the financing, design, construction or operation of commercial-scale plants, and we may not be successful in doing so. No commercial-scale plant based on the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes has been operational to date. A commercial-scale plant based on the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes may never be successfully built either by us or by our licensees. Success depends on our licensees’ ability to economically design, construct and operate commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies which depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Our licensees will determine whether we issue any plant site licenses to them and, as a result, whether we receive any license fees under our license agreements. To date, no licensee of the Syntroleum® Technologies has exercised its right to obtain a site license. Whether licensees are willing to expend the resources necessary to construct plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies will depend on a variety of factors outside our control, including the prevailing view regarding the price outlook for crude oil, natural gas, coal, biomass, fats, vegetable oils and refined products. In addition, our license agreements may be terminated by the licensee, with or without cause and without penalty, upon 90 days’ notice to us. If we do not receive payments under our license agreements, we may not have sufficient resources to implement our business strategy. Our licensees are not restricted from pursuing alternative FT or renewable fuels technologies on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, with the exception of those restrictions agreed to by Tyson in the limited liability company agreement relating to Dynamic Fuels. Commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies might not produce results necessary for success, including results demonstrated on a laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration basis. A variety of results necessary for successful operation of the Syntroleum® Technologies could fail to occur at a commercial plant, including reactions successfully tested on a laboratory, pilot plant or demonstration plant basis. Results that could cause commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes to be unsuccessful include: • lower reaction activity than demonstrated in the pilot plant and demonstration plant operations which would decrease the conversion of natural gas into synthesis gas and increase the amount of catalyst, and/or number of reactors required to produce the design synthesis gas rate; • lower reaction activity than that demonstrated in laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration plant operations, which would increase the amount of catalyst or number of reactors required to convert synthesis gas into liquid hydrocarbons and increase capital and operating costs; • shorter than anticipated catalyst life, which would require more frequent catalyst regeneration, catalyst purchases, or both, thereby increasing operating costs; • excessive production of gaseous light hydrocarbons from the FT reaction compared to design conditions, which would lower the anticipated amount of liquid hydrocarbons produced and would lower revenues and margins from plant operations; • lower reaction activity than that demonstrated in laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration plant operations, which would increase the amount of catalyst or number of reactors required to convert FT products into finished, marketable fuels; • inability of third-party gasification and synthesis gas clean-up technology integrated into the Syntroleum® Process to produce on specification synthesis gas adequate for economic operation of a GTL, CTL or BTL plant; and • higher than anticipated capital and operating costs. 8 Table of Contents Results that could cause commercial-scale plants based on our Bio-Synfining™ Technology to be unsuccessful include: • higher than anticipated catalyst or hydrogen consumption; • inadequate removal of feedstock impurities in pre-treatment; • lower process yields than that demonstrated in laboratory operations; and • higher than anticipated capital and operating costs. In addition, these plants could experience mechanical difficulties related or unrelated to elements of the Syntroleum® Technologies. Many of our competitors have significantly more resources than we do, and technologies developed by competitors could become more commercially successful than ours or render our technologies obsolete. Development and commercialization of FT and renewable fuels technologies is highly competitive, and other technologies could become more commercially successful than ours. The Syntroleum® Technologies are based on chemistry that has been used by several companies in synthetic fuel projects over the past 60 years. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies as well as independent technology providers that have developed or are developing competing FT or renewable fuels technologies. These companies typically have significantly more resources than we do. As our competitors continue to develop FT and renewable fuels technologies, one or more of our current technologies could become obsolete. Our ability to create and maintain technological advantages is critical to our future success. As new technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage forcing us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully develop or expend the financial resources necessary to acquire or develop new technology. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights involves complexities and uncertainties and commercialization of our Syntroleum® Technologies could give rise to claims that our technology infringes upon the rights of others. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Additional patents may not be granted, and our existing patents might not provide us with commercial benefit or might be infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. In addition, the availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, is often difficult to predict and vary significantly from country to country. We, our licensors, or our licensees may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our GTL, CTL, BTL or Bio-Synfining™ Technologies. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Commercialization of the Syntroleum® Technologies may give rise to claims that our technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others. We may not become aware of patents or rights that may have applicability in the GTL, BTL, CTL or renewable fuels industry until after we have made a substantial investment in the development and commercialization of those technologies. Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon past, present or future GTL, BTL, and CTL or renewable fuels technologies. Legal actions could be brought against us, our co-venturers or our licensees claiming damages and seeking an injunction that would prevent us, our co-venturers or our licensees from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technologies. If an infringement action were successful, in addition to potential liability for damages, our co-venturers, our licensees or we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to test, market or commercialize the affected technologies. Any required license might not be made available or, if available, might not be available on acceptable terms, and we could be prevented entirely from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technology. We may have to expend substantial resources in litigation, either in enforcing our patents, defending against the infringement claims of others, or both. Many possible claimants, such as the major energy companies that have or may be developing proprietary GTL, CTL, BTL or renewable fuels technologies competitive with the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes and Bio-Synfining™ Technology, have significantly more resources to spend on litigation. We could have potential indemnification liabilities to licensees relating to the operation of plants based on our Syntroleum® Technologies or intellectual property disputes. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to us if intellectual property rights claims were to be made against us or our licensees, or if plants based on the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes or our Bio-Synfining™ Technology were to fail to operate as designed. Generally our license agreements require us to indemnify the licensee, subject to certain limitations against specified losses relating to, among other things: • use of patent rights and technical information relating to the Syntroleum® Technologies; • acts or omissions by us in connection with our preparation of process design packages (“PDP”) for plants; and • performance guarantees that we may provide. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Products of the Syntroleum® Technologies The U.S. renewable fuels industry is highly dependent on a mix of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could harm our business and financial condition. Federal tax incentives make the cost of renewable diesel production significantly more competitive with the price of diesel. Currently, under the Energy Independence Act and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPACT, the tax credit for producers of diesel/renewable diesel blends of up to a $1.00 tax credit per gallon expired on December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that it will be renewed on similar terms, if at all. Additionally, the credit for producers of naphtha and liquid petroleum gases of $0.50 per gallon tax credit expired on December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance of this credit’s continued existence, and its elimination would be harmful to our business and financial condition. Finally, these credits and other federal and state programs that benefit renewable diesel generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, which might in the future be the subject of challenges. The elimination or significant reduction in the renewable diesel tax credit or other programs could harm our results of operations and financial condition. The Energy Independence Act and EPAct established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels, which include biodiesel, ethanol and any liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas, to be blended into the fuel supply. By the year 2022, these standards require that the national volume of renewable fuels to be blended into the fuel supply equal or exceed 36 billion gallons. While these renewable fuel standards should stimulate demand for renewable fuels generally, there can be no assurance of specific demand for renewable diesel. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the renewable fuel standards could adversely impact the demand for renewable diesel and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need to obtain funds from additional financings or other sources for our business activities. If we do not receive these funds, we would need to reduce, delay or eliminate some of our expenditures. In 2009, we generated cash flow from operations from the deployment of our technology and other engineering services. In the past we have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $25.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $3.3 million of accounts receivable to fund operations and investing activities. We review cash flow forecasts and budgets periodically. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital to accomplish our business plan over the next several years. We expect to seek to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financing in the capital markets, joint ventures, license agreements, sale of assets and other strategic alliances, as well as various other financing arrangements. If we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued in the future without stockholder approval, and the terms of our preferred stock could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights that are more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms upon which such financing and capital might be available. Our agreement with Tyson concerning Dynamic Fuels allows the participants to elect not to invest in a plant or to cease making capital contributions in the construction of a plant under certain circumstances. Should a participant in a project elect not to invest or to cease investing in the construction of the plant the other participants in the project will need to raise additional capital from third parties or to take on additional interest in the project and fund the additional capital internally. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise the additional capital from third parties on terms acceptable to us or to fund the additional capital requirements internally. See discussion of our capital commitments at Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Contractual Obligations. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce, delay or eliminate expenditures for our future plant development and other activities, or seek to enter into a business combination transaction with or sell assets to another company. We could also be forced to license to third parties the rights to commercialize additional products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. The transactions outlined above may not be available to us when needed or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. We need to remain listed on the NASDAQ stock market to be able to access adequate funding from time to time. We could face de-listing issues that would impair the liquidity of our stock and our availability to access the capital markets. Our stock price has remained above $1.00 per share since March, 2009. NASDAQ rules call for the potential de-listing of a company if its stock trades under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days. If our stock price declines to below $1.00 per share again, we can make no assurance that we will be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Construction and operations of plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies will be subject to risks of delay and cost overruns. 10 Table of Contents The construction and operation of plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies will be subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns resulting from numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; and • difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals. We have incurred losses. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $332.9 million. We achieved profitability from continuing operations in 2009 for the first time. Because we do not have an operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be based, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by small companies seeking to develop new and rapidly evolving technologies. To address these risks we must, among other things, continue to attract investment capital, respond to competitive factors, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and commercialize and continue to upgrade the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes and Bio-Synfining™ technologies. We may not be successful in addressing these risks, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Our anticipated expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future operating activities and not on historical financial data. We plan to continue funding project development activities. Capital expenditures will depend on progress we make in developing various projects on which we are currently working. Increased revenues or cash flows may not result from these expenses. If prices or margins for crude oil, natural gas, coal, vegetable oils and fats and other commodities are unfavorable, plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies may not be economical. Because the synthetic crude oil, liquid fuels and specialty products that plants utilizing the Syntroleum® Technologies are expected to produce will compete in markets with oil and refined petroleum products, and because natural gas, coal, biomass, fats or vegetable oils will be used as the feedstock for these plants, an increase in feedstock prices relative to prices for oil or refined products, or a decrease in prices for oil or refined products relative to feedstock prices, could adversely affect the operating results of these plants. Higher than anticipated costs for the catalysts and other materials used in these plants could also adversely affect operating results. Prices for oil, natural gas, coal, biomass, fats, greases, vegetable oils and refined products are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that could cause changes in the prices and availability of oil, natural gas, coal, biomass, fats, vegetable oils and refined products include: • level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulation; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political conditions in countries producing feedstocks for fuels plants; • supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal, biomass fats, greases and vegetable oils; • location of GTL plants relative to natural gas reserves and pipelines; • location of CTL plants relative to coal reserves and transportation systems; • location of BTL plants relative to biomass reserves and transportation systems; • capacities of pipelines; 11 Table of Contents • fluctuations in seasonal demand; • crop yields; • seasonality of prices for feedstocks and refined products; • farmer planting decisions; • output and proximity of crush facilities that convert the crops to oils; • alternative uses for fats; • number of animals slaughtered and rendered; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. We cannot predict the future markets and prices for oil, natural gas, coal or other materials used in the Syntroleum® Technologies or refined products. We believe that the Syntroleum® and Synfining® Processes can be economic for GTL, BTL and CTL plants given the current world crude oil prices. However, the markets for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Crude oil prices could return to such low levels in the future. Our success depends on the performance of our executive officers and key personnel, the loss of who would disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the performance of our executive officers, including Edward G. Roth, our Chief Executive Officer, Karen L. Gallagher, our Senior Vice President of Finance and Principal Financial Officer. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be constrained and the timing of implementation may be impacted if we are unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel. At December 31, 2009, we had 19 full-time employees. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with several key employees. We depend on strategic relationships with feedstock suppliers, construction contractors, site owners, manufacturing and engineering companies, and customers. If we are not successful in entering into and achieving the benefits of these relationships, this could negatively impact our business. Our or our licensee’s ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers, construction contractors, engineering service companies, site owners, manufacturing and engineering companies, and customers will depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. Our success in this area will also depend on our ability to select and evaluate suitable projects, as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties or local government bodies, contractual arrangements with other companies, including those that supply feedstock that we will use in our business, or minority investments from third parties. There can be no assurances that we will be able to establish these strategic relationships, or, if established, that the relationships will be maintained. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic participants may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain these relationships. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, our business may be negatively affected. Our operating results may be volatile due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future annual and quarterly operating results because of the unpredictability of many factors that impact our business. These factors include: • timing of any construction by us or our licensees of plants; • demand for licenses or other technology transfer agreements of the Syntroleum® Technologies and receipt and revenue recognition of license fees; • feedstock prices; • prices for refined products; • demand for synthetic fuels and specialty products; • introduction or enhancement of FT and renewable fuels technologies by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new technologies; and • general economic conditions. 12 Table of Contents As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it may be that in some future year or quarter our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive laws relating to the protection of the environment, and these laws may increase the cost of designing, constructing and operating our plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies or affect demand for the products of these plants. If we violate any of the laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, we may be subject to substantial fines, criminal sanctions or third party lawsuits and may be required to install costly pollution control equipment or, in some extreme cases, curtail operations. Our FT and renewable fuels plants will generally be required to obtain permits under applicable environmental laws and various permits for industrial siting and construction. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as with any requisite environmental or construction permits, may increase the costs of designing, constructing and operating our plants. We may also face exposure to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters with respect to our previously owned real estate. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, or financial condition. For instance, in response to studies suggesting that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, the U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation, and more than a dozen states have already taken legal measures to reduce emission of these gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse affect on our operations. Terrorist threats and U.S. military actions could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could occur. These developments and similar future events may cause instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets and could significantly increase political and economic instability in the geographic areas in which we may wish to operate. These developments could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil, natural gas and the feedstocks for our plants and the cost and availability of insurance. In addition, these developments could adversely affect our ability to access capital and to successfully implement projects currently under development. United States government regulations effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we may wish to operate in the future. These developments could subject the operations of our company to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry a significant amount of business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance, such as a leak, fire or explosion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 