ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The occurrences or any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IF WE DO NOT QUICKLY BECOME PROFITABLE. Our cash used in operating activities was approximately $3.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2005 and $243 thousand for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Based on our cash balance at September 30, 2005 of $4.3 million and our expectation that we’ll reach cash flow breakeven in fiscal 2006, we anticipate having sufficient cash resources for at least the next twelve months. Despite our belief that we have sufficient cash to fund operations in 2006, we believed it was prudent to raise additional cash through the issuance of common stock. In November 2005, we issued 747 thousand shares and 149 thousand common stock purchase warrants to certain individual investors, and received proceeds of $725 thousand. If we do not become profitable in 2006 or our losses increase, we may need additional capital. The business environment may not be conducive to raising additional financing. If we require additional financing, the terms of such financing may heavily dilute the ownership interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall significantly or we may not be able to secure financing upon acceptable terms at all. WE MAY NOT EARN REVENUES SUFFICIENT TO REMAIN IN BUSINESS. Our ability to become profitable depends on whether we can sell our Rich Media products for more than it costs to produce and support them. Our future sales also need to provide sufficient margin to support our ongoing operating activities. The success of our revenue model will depend upon many factors including: • Our ability to develop and market our products; 7 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 • The extent to which consumers and businesses use our products; and • Our ability to price our offerings in order to give us adequate margins. Because of the early stage of our Rich Media business, and the evolving nature of our business, we cannot predict whether our revenue model will prove to be viable, whether demand for our products will materialize at the prices we expect to charge, or whether current or future pricing levels will be sustainable. Our stock price and business viability is dependent upon our ability to grow our revenues and manage our costs. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES. For the year ended September 30, 2005, we had a gross margin of $5.6 million on revenues of $8.3 million with which to cover sales, marketing, research, development and general administrative costs. Our sales, marketing, research, development and general administration costs are large in comparison to our revenues, due partly to the expense of developing leads and relatively long sales cycles involved in selling products that are not yet considered “mainstream” technology investments. For the year ended September 30, 2005, these expenses were over 50% of our total revenues. Although we expect our operating losses as a percentage of revenues to continue to decline and reach breakeven in the near future, we may never achieve profitability. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT UPON A SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS ACCEPTING OUR PRODUCTS. We cannot predict how the market for our Rich Media products will develop, and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince enterprise customers of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings and other benefits of our Rich Media products. Our future revenues and revenue growth rates will depend in large part on our success in delivering these products effectively and creating market acceptance for these products. If we fail to do so, our products will not achieve widespread market acceptance, and we may not generate significant revenues to offset our development and sales and marketing costs, which will hurt our business. Additionally, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products or product enhancements that address future needs of our target markets and to respond to these changing standards and practices. MULTIPLE UNIT SALES MAY FAIL TO MATERIALIZE. We need to sell multiple units to educational, corporate and government institutions in order to sell most efficiently and become profitable. In 2005, 44% of revenues were to preexisting customers and 89 customers had cumulatively purchased multiple units compared to 35% of revenues and 35 customers in 2004. While we have addressed a strategy to accomplish this, a customer may choose not to make expected purchases of our products. The failure of our customers to make expected purchases will harm our business. IF OUR MARKETING AND LEAD GENERATION EFFORTS ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED. We believe that continued marketing efforts will be critical to achieve widespread acceptance of our Rich Media products. Our marketing campaign may not be successful given the expense required. For example, failure to adequately generate and develop sales leads could cause our future revenue growth to decrease. In addition, our inability to generate and cultivate sales leads into large organizations, where there is the potential for significant use of our products, could have a material effect on our business. We may not be able to identify and secure the number of strategic sales leads necessary to help generate marketplace acceptance of our products. If our marketing or lead-generation efforts are not successful, our business and operating results will be harmed. 8 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 THE LENGTH OF OUR SALES AND DEPLOYMENT CYCLE IS UNCERTAIN, WHICH MAY CAUSE OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS TO VARY SIGNIFICANTLY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER AND YEAR TO YEAR. During our sales cycle, we spend considerable time and expense providing information to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products without generating corresponding revenues. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and based in part on our expectations of future revenues. Therefore, any delay in our sales cycle could cause significant variations in our operating results, particularly because a relatively small number of customer orders represent a large portion of our revenues. We anticipate that some of our largest sources of revenues will be government entities and large corporations that often require long testing and approval processes before making a decision to purchase our products. In general, the process of selling our products to a potential customer may involve lengthy negotiations. As a result, we anticipate that our sales cycle will be unpredictable. Our sales cycle will also be subject to delays as a result of customer-specific factors over which we have little or no control, including budgetary constraints and internal approval procedures. Our products are aimed toward a broadened business user base within our key markets. These products are relatively early in their product life cycles and we are relatively inexperienced with their sales cycle. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince targeted users of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings and other benefits. Accordingly, it is likely that delays in our sales cycles with these products will occur and this could cause significant variations in our operating results. THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF COMPETITION IN THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD LOWER THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. The market for digital rich media is relatively new, and we face competition from other companies that provide digital media applications. Companies, like Webex, Placeware (Microsoft), and Raindance offer collaboration and web conferencing applications, while Microsoft, Macromedia and Accordent provide authoring capability and other competitors such as Autonomy offer an enterprise approach to webcasting that attempts to sell a full rich media database and indexing system on top of the webcasting solution. If one of these alternative approaches is received more favorably in the marketplace, a new approach or technology is developed or an existing or new competitor markets more effectively than we do or we otherwise do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. In addition, the more successful we are in the emerging market for rich media, the more competitors are likely to emerge, including turnkey media application; streaming media platform developers; digital music infrastructure providers; and digital media applications service providers (including for digital musical subscription). Many of our competitors have far greater financial resources than we do, and could easily overtake the marketplace and severely harm our business. We may also face competition from foreign suppliers and competition from LMS or education IT companies. The presence of these competitors could reduce the demand for our systems, and we may not have the financial resources to compete successfully. OUR DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS ARE NEW AND UNPROVEN. Audio/visual distributors have not fully committed to our products. Because our products are complicated, we may have difficulty in obtaining such commitments. In addition, Tandberg and Polycom, two prominent manufacturers, may displace us with a competitive offering, leaving us the need to find a new distribution source. If we cannot set up an efficient distribution channel, or if we are unable to manage our distributor relationships, our business could be harmed. 9 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 OUR CUSTOMERS MAY USE OUR PRODUCTS TO SHARE CONFIDENTIAL AND SENSITIVE INFORMATION, AND IF OUR SYSTEM SECURITY IS BREACHED, OUR REPUTATION COULD BE HARMED AND WE MAY LOSE CUSTOMERS. Our customers may use our products to share confidential and sensitive information, the security of which is critical to their business. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security, and any breach could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. In addition, customers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to resolve problems caused by any breach, including litigation-related expenses if we are sued. THE TECHNOLOGY UNDERLYING OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IS COMPLEX AND MAY CONTAIN UNKNOWN DEFECTS THAT COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION, RESULT IN PRODUCT LIABILITY OR DECREASE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. The technology underlying our products is complex and includes software that is internally developed, software licensed from third parties and hardware purchased from third parties. These products may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We may not discover defects that affect our current or new applications or enhancements until after they are sold. Any defects in our products and services could: • Damage our reputation; • Cause our customers to initiate product liability suits against us; • Increase our product development resources; • Cause us to lose sales; and • Delay market acceptance of our products. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our complete liability exposure. IF WE ARE VIEWED ONLY AS COMMODITY SUPPLIERS, OUR MARGINS AND VALUATIONS WILL SHRINK. We need to provide value-added services in order to become less of a commodity supplier. This entails building long-term customer relationships. If we fail to do so, our margins will shrink, and our stock may become less valued to investors. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS UPON THE PROPRIETARY ASPECTS OF OUR TECHNOLOGY. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. We currently have five patent applications pending in the United States and one internationally, although none have been issued. We may seek additional patents in the future. Our current patent applications cover different aspects of the technology used in our patents and are important to our ability to compete. However, it is possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • any patents acquired by or issued to us may not be broad enough to protect us; • any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; • current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents; and • effective patent protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our patent-related assets, may not be available in every country in which we do business. 10 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 WE ALSO RELY UPON TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADE SECRETS TO PROTECT OUR TECHNOLOGY, WHICH MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We also rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our technology. We have filed for nine U.S. and four foreign country trademarks, of which three U.S. and one foreign country trademarks are registered. These forms of intellectual property protection are critically important to our ability to establish and maintain our competitive position. However, • third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights; • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter others from developing similar technologies; • effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our trademark, copyright or trade secret assets, may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries; • other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks; and • policing unauthorized use of our services and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. IF OTHER PARTIES BRING INFRINGEMENT OR OTHER CLAIMS AGAINST US, WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS OR LOSE CUSTOMERS. Other companies may obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would limit our ability to conduct our business and could assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any litigation, even if without merit, and intellectual property litigation could force us to cease using key technology, obtain a license, or redesign our products. In the course of our business, we may sell certain systems to our customers, and in connection with such sale, we may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to these systems. In particular, claims are currently being made by holders of patents against learning institutions using streaming in their curriculum. We could be subject to similar claims, which could harm our business. IF WE LOSE THE SERVICES OF RIMAS P. BUINEVICIUS, OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, OR MONTY R. SCHMIDT, OUR CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED. Our success will depend on our senior executives. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Rimas P. Buinevicius, or our co-founder and Chief Technology Officer, Monty R. Schmidt, would harm our business. Although we have long-term employment agreements with Messrs. Buinevicius and Schmidt, we do not have life insurance policies on any of our senior executives. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET, AND RELATED LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES. Currently, few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws generally applicable to businesses. Many Internet-related laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, in individual states and local jurisdictions and in other countries. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including encryption, network and information security, and the convergence of traditional communication services, such as telephone services, with Internet communications, taxes and wireless networks. These types of regulations could differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions both inside and outside the United States. Non-U.S. countries and political organizations may impose, or favor, more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In addition, state and local governments within the United States may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties 11 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for, and the costs associated with, our products and services. The adoption of such laws and regulations may harm our business. CURRENT AND FUTURE ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Economic growth in the United States and throughout most of the world continues to be slow, though there are signs that at least in the U.S., economic growth may be increasing at a modestly higher rate than in the recent past. Nevertheless, it is still uncertain when economic conditions will improve on a sustained basis. In addition, the residual effects of war in Iraq, uncertainty about Iraq’s political future and continuing tensions throughout the Middle East remain a risk to the domestic economy and may impact the supply and price of petroleum products, which may in turn negatively impact the world economy. Moreover, the prospect of future terrorist attacks in the United States and elsewhere may have a further negative impact on the economy. In particular, the technology and telecommunications sectors continue to languish in an economic downturn more pronounced than that of the broader U.S. and world economies. If economic conditions worsen because of economic, political or social turmoil or military conflict, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, our customers may not be able to pay for our products and our distribution partners may cease operations, which may harm our operating results. AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK IS RISKY BECAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE AND WE COULD BE DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET. Our common stock price, like that of many companies in the Internet industry, has been and may continue to be extremely volatile, and there is a risk we could be delisted from the NASDAQ National Market. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and volatility in the financial markets. Our stock traded below $1.00 in 2003, and we previously received notice from the NASDAQ National Market that we need to comply with the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ National Market or be delisted, although we have demonstrated compliance and the hearing file was closed. If our stock trades below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we may receive another notice from the NASDAQ National Market that we need to comply with the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ National Market within 90 calendar days from such notification or be delisted. If our stock is delisted from the NASDAQ National Market, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. Additionally, our stock may be subject to “penny stock” regulations. If our common stock were subject to “penny stock” regulations, which apply to certain equity securities not traded on the NASDAQ National Market which have a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to limited exceptions, additional disclosure would be required by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving such penny stock. EXERCISE OF OUTSTANDING OPTIONS AND WARRANTS WILL RESULT IN FURTHER DILUTION. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders, and may reduce the trading price and market for our common stock. At September 30, 2005, we had outstanding options and warrants to acquire 5.8 million shares of common stock, 1.0 million of which are subject to future vesting. Included in the foregoing are 4.6 million options which have been granted under our 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan, our 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and our Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, 3.6 million of which are immediately exercisable. To the extent that these stock options or warrants are exercised, the dilution to the interests of our stockholders will likely occur. Additional options and warrants may be issued in the future at prices not less than 85% of the fair market value of the underlying security on the date of grant. Exercise of these options or warrants, or even the potential of their exercise may have an adverse effect on the trading price and market for our common stock. The holders of our options or our warrants are likely to exercise them at times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise 12 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 price of the securities. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the options and warrants will likely result in dilution of the equity represented by the then outstanding shares of common stock held by other stockholders. Holders of our options and warrants can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms, which are more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided, by these options and warrants. WE MAY NEED TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS OR FORM STRATEGIC ALLIANCES OR PARTNERSHIPS IN ORDER TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE IN OUR MARKET, AND POTENTIAL FUTURE ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES OR PARTNERSHIPS COULD BE DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE, DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND DILUTE STOCKHOLDER VALUE. We may acquire or form strategic alliances or partnerships with other businesses in the future in order to remain competitive or to acquire new technologies. As a result of these acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships, we may need to integrate products, technologies, widely dispersed operations and distinct corporate cultures. The products, services or technologies of the acquired companies may need to be altered or redesigned in order to be made compatible with our software products and services, or the software architecture of our customers. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. Our failure to successfully manage future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our stockholders would be diluted if we finance the acquisition, strategic alliances or partnerships by incurring convertible debt or issuing equity securities. OUR CURRENT STOCK COMPENSATION EXPENSE NEGATIVELY IMPACTS OUR EARNINGS AND ONCE WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT THE FAIR VALUE OF EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS AS AN EXPENSE IN CONJUNCTION WITH FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENT NO. 123(R) – SHARE BASED PAYMENT, OUR EARNINGS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED, WHICH MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Under our current accounting practice, stock compensation is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. Had we accounted for our stock option plans based upon the fair value at the grant date for options granted under the plans, based on the provisions of SFAS 123, our net income (loss) would have been reduced by $522, $360 and $305 thousand of compensation expense in the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Effective October 1, 2005, we will be required to record compensation expense in the financial statements for stock issued to employees based on the grant date fair value of the equity issued. The adoption of SFAS 123(R)’s fair value method may have a significant impact on our results of operations and as such, our ability to achieve or maintain profitability may be negatively impacted, which may cause our stock price to decline. OUR CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT WE ARE IN COMPLIANCE WITH ALL POTENTIALLY APPLICABLE REGULATIONS. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, we cannot assure that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, effective for fiscal year 2007. We also cannot assure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, this may cause our stock price to decline. 13 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2005 WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH GOVERMENTAL REGULATION AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES. It is likely that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and other countries with respect to the Internet that might affect us. Those laws may relate to areas such as: • changes in telecommunications regulations; • copyright and other intellectual property rights; • encryption; • personal privacy concerns, including the use of “cookies” and individual user information; • e-commerce liability; • email, network and information security. Changes in telecommunications regulations could substantially increase the costs of communicating on the Internet or over VoIP networks. This, in turn, could slow the growth in the internet use of VoIP networks and thereby decrease the demand for our services. Several telecommunications carriers are advocating that the Federal Communications Commission regulate the Internet and VoIP networks in the same manner as other telecommunications services by imposing access fees. Recent events suggest that the FCC may begin regulating the Internet and VoIP networks in such a way. In addition, we operate our services throughout the United States and state regulatory authorities may seek to regulate aspects of our services as telecommunications activities. Other countries and political organizations are likely to impose or favor more and different regulations than those that have been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of the regulation. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for and costs associated with our services, and may affect the growth of the Internet or VoIP networks. Such laws or regulations may therefore harm our business. PROVISIONS OF OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND MARYLAND LAW COULD ALSO DISCOURAGE AN ACQUISITION OF OUR COMPANY THAT WOULD BENEFIT OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Furthermore, our articles of incorporation provide for classified voting, which means that our stockholders may vote upon the retention of only one or two of our seven directors each year. Moreover, Maryland corporate law restricts certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 