Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below encompass many of the risks that could affect our company. Not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arrive and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. 6 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Technology We might not successfully commercialize our technology, and commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Process may never be successfully constructed or operated by ourselves or our licensees. We do not have significant experience managing the financing, design, construction or operation of commercial-scale plants, and we may not be successful in doing so. Our Dynamic Fuels plant is the first commercial scale plant operating to date and it is based on our Bio-Synfining® Technology. The plant has been operating since November 2010, but has not yet achieved profitability or operated at full design capacity on a continuous basis for an extended length of time. No commercial-scale plant based on the Synfining® Processes has been operational to date. A commercial-scale plant based on the Synfining® Processes may never be successfully built either by us or by our licensees. Success depends on our licensees’ ability to economically design, construct and operate commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies which depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Our licensees will determine whether we issue any plant site licenses to them. On June 27, 2012 Dynamic Fuels LLC exercised its right to obtain a site license. In addition, our license agreements may be terminated by the licensee, with or without cause and without penalty, upon 90 days’ notice to us. If we do not receive payments under our license agreements, we may not have sufficient resources to implement our business strategy. Our licensees are not restricted from pursuing alternative technologies on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, with the exception of those restrictions agreed to by Tyson in the limited liability company agreement relating to Dynamic Fuels. Commercial-scale plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies might not produce results necessary for success, including results demonstrated on a laboratory, pilot plant and demonstration basis. A variety of results necessary for successful operation of the Syntroleum® Technologies could fail to occur at a commercial plant, including reactions demonstrated in research and development. Results that could cause commercial-scale plants based on our Technologies to be unsuccessful include: • feedstocks that are not on specification and or have adulterants requiring additional pretreatment, resulting in plant modifications and/or supply modifications increasing capital and operating expense and causing schedule delays; • feedstock supply interruptions; • failure of third party suppliers, contractors or technologies to deliver feedstocks, goods and/or services on specification; • catalyst activity (of all types) that are less than design basis which would require an increase in the amount of catalyst, and/or number of reactors required to produce at the design rate resulting in increased capital and operating costs; • shorter than anticipated catalyst life, which would require more frequent catalyst regeneration, catalyst replacements, or both, thereby increasing operating costs; • excessive production of gaseous or light hydrocarbons compared to design basis, which would lower the amount of desirable hydrocarbons produced, and reduce revenues and margins; • inability of third-party gasification and synthesis gas clean-up technology integrated into the Syntroleum® Process to produce on specification synthesis gas adequate for economic operation of a FT plant; and • longer project cycles and/or higher than anticipated capital and operating costs including feedstock costs. In addition, we have encountered, and future plants could experience, mechanical difficulties related or unrelated to elements of the Syntroleum® Technologies. Many of our competitors have significantly more resources than we do, and technologies developed by competitors could become more commercially successful than ours or render our technologies obsolete. Development and commercialization of FT and renewable fuels technologies is highly competitive, and other technologies could become more commercially successful than ours. Our Technologies are based on chemistry that has been used by several companies in synthetic fuel projects over the past 60 years. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies as well as independent technology providers that have developed or are developing competing technologies. These companies typically have significantly more resources than we do. As our competitors continue to develop competing technologies, one or more of our current technologies could become obsolete. Our ability to create and maintain technological advantages is critical to our future success. As new technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage forcing us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully develop or expend the financial resources necessary to acquire or develop new technology. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights involves complexities and uncertainties and commercialization of our Technologies could give rise to claims that our technology infringes upon the rights of others. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and open art rights, which involves complex legal and scientific uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Patents may not be granted, and our existing patents might not provide us with commercial benefit or might be infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. The availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, is often difficult to predict and vary significantly from country to country. We, our licensors, or our licensees may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our Technologies. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Commercialization of our Technologies may give rise to claims that our technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others. As previously discussed, we are currently involved in litigation concerning alleged infringement claims. We may not become aware of patents or rights that may have applicability until after we have made a substantial investment in the development and commercialization of our Technology. Third parties may claim infringement. Legal actions could be brought against us, our co-venturers or our licensees claiming damages and seeking an injunction that would prevent us, our co-venturers or our licensees utilizing the affected technologies. If an infringement action were successful, in addition to potential liability for damages, our co-venturers, our licensees or we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to test, market or commercialize the affected Technologies. Any required license might not be made available or, if available, might not be available on acceptable terms, and we could be prevented entirely from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technology. We may have to expend substantial resources in litigation, either in enforcing our patents, defending against the infringement claims of others, or both. Many possible claimants, such as the major energy companies that have competing technologies competitive with our Technologies, have significantly more resources to spend on litigation. We could have potential indemnification liabilities to licensees relating to the operation of plants based on our Technologies or intellectual property disputes. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to us if intellectual property rights claims were to be made against us or our licensees, or if plants based on our Technology were to fail to operate as designed. Generally our license agreements require us to indemnify the licensee, sometimes subject to certain limitations against specified losses relating to, among other things: • use of patent rights and technical information relating to the Syntroleum® Technologies; • acts or omissions by us in connection with our preparation of process design packages (“PDP”) for plants; and • performance guarantees that we may provide. Risks Relating to Renewable Fuels Industry The U.S. renewable fuels industry is highly dependent on a mix of international, federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes could harm our business and financial condition. The Energy Independence Act and EPAct established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels, which include biomass based diesel, ethanol and other liquid fuel produced from biomass to be blended into the fuel supply. By the year 2022, these standards require that the national volume of renewable fuels to be blended into the fuel supply equal or exceed 36 billion gallons. While these renewable fuel standards should stimulate demand for renewable fuels generally, there can be no assurance of specific demand for renewable diesel. Additionally this legislation has waiver provisions. Any waiver of the renewable fuel standards could adversely impact the demand for renewable diesel and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need to obtain funds from additional financings or other sources for our business activities. If we do not receive these funds, we would need to reduce, delay or eliminate some of our expenditures. In the past we have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $15.9 million of cash and cash equivalents to fund operations and investing activities. We review cash flow forecasts and budgets periodically. 8 Table of Contents We expect that we may need to raise additional capital to accomplish our business plan over the next several years through debt or equity financing, joint ventures, license agreements, sale of assets, as well as various other financing arrangements. If we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued without stockholder approval and the terms could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms upon which such financing and capital might be available. Our agreement with Tyson concerning Dynamic Fuels allows the participants to elect not to invest in a plant or to cease making capital contributions in the construction of a plant under certain circumstances. Should a participant in a project elect not to invest or to cease investing in the construction of the plant the other participants in the project will need to raise additional capital from third parties or to take on additional interest in the project and fund the additional capital internally. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise the additional capital from third parties on terms acceptable to us or to fund the additional capital requirements internally. See discussion of our capital commitments at Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Contractual Obligations. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce, delay or eliminate expenditures for our future plant development and other activities, or seek to enter into a business combination transaction with or sell assets to another company. We could also be forced to license to third parties the rights to commercialize additional products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. The transactions outlined above may not be available to us when needed or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. The decline in our stock price makes the cost of obtaining additional equity capital more expensive to our shareholders by reason of the attendant dilution. Further, our stock price decline and related decline in market capitalization has limited our ability to sell shares of common stock from our shelf registration statement in order to obtain capital. Construction and operations of plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies will be subject to risks of delay and cost overruns. The construction and operation of plants based on our Technologies will be subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns. Delays in construction or operation of the plant could directly impact the capital expenditures or working capital. Increases in costs could result in increased equity payments from parent companies. Dynamic Fuels plant being shut down for an extended period could adversely affect Syntroleum financial position. The Dynamic Fuels plant is operated at a single facility in Geismar Louisiana. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility due to flooding, hurricane, fire or other extreme factors beyond our control could damage our capital equipment or supporting infrastructure and materially impair the ability of the plant to operate. Such a disruption could result in lost revenues, increased costs and /or reduced profits. If the Plant is shut down, it may experience a prolonged start-up period, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Such start-up periods could range from several days to several months, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. The shutdown of the Plant for a substantial period of time for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The Dynamic Fuels plant has remained shut down and in standby mode, primarily because of adverse economic conditions, since completion of a maintenance turnaround in December, 2012. We have not yet agreed with Tyson on the economic conditions for plant start-up. We could experience disagreements with our joint venture partners which could adversely affect the operations or financial condition of our plants. The operation of Dynamic Fuels is to be exercised jointly by representatives of the Company and Tyson equally, with no member exercising control. Decisions surrounding operation and financing of the Plant generally require both members to agree. Disagreements between the members or a modification in the level of participation from one of the members could significantly impact the Plant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We need to remain listed on the NASDAQ stock market to be able to access adequate funding from time to time. We could face de-listing issues that would impair the liquidity of our stock and our availability to access the capital markets. We are required to maintain standards for listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. One of those standards is that our common stock maintains a minimum price of at least $1.00 per share. On June 8, 2012 we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under the marketplace Rule 5500(a)(2). We were provided 180 calendar days, or until December 5, 2012 to regain compliance. On December 6, 2012 we received a Nasdaq notification indicating we were eligible for an additional 180 calendar day compliance period or until June 3, 2013 to regain compliance. Their determination was based on our meeting the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on the Capital market with the exception of the bid price requirement, and our written notice of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. We can make no assurance that we will be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. 9 Table of Contents We have incurred losses. As of December 31, 2012 we had an accumulated deficit of $360.5 million. Because we do not have an operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be based, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by small companies seeking to develop new and rapidly evolving technologies. To address these risks we must, among other things, continue to attract investment capital, respond to competitive factors, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel and commercialize our technologies. We may not be successful in addressing these risks, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Our anticipated expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future operating activities and on historical financial data. Capital expenditures will depend on progress we make in developing various projects on which we are currently working. Increased revenues or cash flows may not result from these expenses. If prices or margins for crude oil, natural gas, coal, vegetable oil, biomass and fats and other commodities are unfavorable, plants based on the Syntroleum® Technologies may not be economical. Because the products from plants utilizing our Technologies are expected to compete in markets with conventional petroleum products, an increase in alternative feedstock prices relative to prices for oil, or a decrease in prices for oil relative to alternative feedstock prices, could adversely affect the operating results of these plants. Higher than anticipated costs for the catalysts and other materials used in these plants could also adversely affect operating results. Factors that could cause changes in the prices and availability of oil, natural gas, coal, biomass, fats, oils and refined products include: • changes in supply and demand balance of petroleum feedstocks, refined petroleum products, agricultural commodities variances impacted by crop yields, planting decisions, protein complex variances; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulation; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political conditions in countries producing feedstocks; • supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal, biomass fats, greases and oils; • fuel switching between various sources of energy (natural gas, coal, solar, fats, oils and greases, biomass, or other renewable or non-renewable); • capacities of pipelines; • seasonality; • price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. Our success depends on the performance of our executive officers and key personnel, the loss of who would disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the performance of our executive officers, Edward G. Roth, our Chief Executive Officer, Karen L. Power, our Senior Vice President and Principal Financial Officer, and certain key personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be constrained and the timing of implementation may be impacted if we are unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel. At December 31, 2012, we had 19 full-time employees. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with several key employees. We depend on strategic relationships with feedstock suppliers, site owners engineering companies, and customers. If we are not successful in entering into and achieving the benefits of these relationships, this could negatively impact our business. Our licensee’s typically enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers, construction contractors, engineering service companies, site owners, equipment manufacturers, and customers. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties or local government bodies, contractual arrangements with other companies, or minority investments from third parties. There can be no assurances that we or our licensees will be able to establish and maintain these strategic relationships. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic participants may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise incur in order to fulfill our obligations. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, our business may be negatively affected. 10 Table of Contents Our operating results may be volatile due to a variety of factors and are not a meaningful indicator of future performance. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future annual and quarterly operating results because of the unpredictability of many factors that impact our business. These factors include: • government legislation, subsidies on renewable product, and varying regulatory quotas; • volatile price of commodities used and produced; • overcapacity in the renewable fuels industry; • demand for licenses or other technology transfer agreements for our Technologies and receipt and revenue recognition of license fees; • timing of any construction by us or our licensees of plants; • introduction or enhancement of FT and renewable fuels technologies by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new technologies; and • general economic conditions. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it may be that in some future year or quarter our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive laws relating to the protection of the environment, and these laws may increase the cost of designing, constructing and operating our plants based on our Technologies or affect demand for the products of these plants. If we violate any of the laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, we may be subject to substantial fines, criminal sanctions or third party lawsuits and may be required to install costly pollution control equipment or curtail operations. Plants built with our Technologies will generally be required to obtain environmental, industrial siting, construction and numerous other permits. Compliance with these permits may increase the costs of designing, constructing and operating our plants or delay plant development. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may also face exposure to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters with respect to our previously owned real estate. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and changes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, or financial condition. Terrorist threats and U.S. military actions could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could occur. These and like developments could cause instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets and increase political and economic instability in the geographic areas in which we may wish to operate. These developments could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil, natural gas and the feedstocks for our plants and the cost and availability of insurance. In addition, these developments could adversely affect our ability to access capital. United States government regulations effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be expanded to cover countries where we may wish to operate in the future. These developments could subject the operations of our company to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance, such as a leak, fire or explosion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 