ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operation, financial condition or results. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to effectively manage the growth from acquisitions or continue to make acquisitions at the rate at which we have been acquiring in the past. We have experienced significant growth in sales and operating profits through the acquisition of other companies. However, acquisition opportunities may not always present themselves. In such cases, our sales and operating profit may not continue to grow from period to period at the same rate as it has in the past. The success of our acquisitions will depend on many factors, such as our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, negotiate satisfactory purchase terms, obtain loans at satisfactory rates to fund acquisitions, and successfully integrate and manage the growth from acquisitions. Integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of newly acquired companies involve risks. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful or cost-effective in integrating any new businesses into our existing businesses. In fact, the process of integrating newly acquired businesses may cause interruption or slow down the operations of our existing businesses. As a result, we may not be able to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits. The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat (including durum wheat), nuts (including peanuts and cashews), sugar, edible oils, corn, oats, cocoa, eggs, and rice, and our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons, corrugated boxes, plastic containers and composite cans. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. The costs of such commodities may fluctuate widely and we may experience shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions, and natural disasters as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel may also increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for our products may lag behind changes in our energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. We generally use commodity futures and options to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated raw material purchases. Additionally, we have a hedging program for diesel fuel prices (using market traded heating oil as an effective proxy), natural gas, and corrugated paper products. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends upon our assessment of the markets for these commodities, including our assumptions for future prices. For example, if we believe that market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or possibly not hedge any, of our future requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. We compete in mature categories with strong competition. We compete in mature segments with competitors that have a large percentage of segment sales. Our private-brand and branded products both face strong competition from branded competitors for shelf space and sales. Competitive pressures could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing, or lose category share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. This high level of competition by branded competitors could result in a decrease in our sales volumes. In addition, increased trade spending or advertising or reduced prices on our competitors’ products may require us to do the same for our products which could impact our margins and volumes. If we did not do the same, our revenue, profitability and market share could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully manage the price gap between our private-brand products and those of our branded competitors may adversely affect our results of operation. Competitors’ branded products have an advantage over our private-brand products primarily due to advertising and name recognition. When branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private-brand products becomes more challenging because the price gaps between private-brand and branded products can become less meaningful. At the retail level, private-brand products sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. If branded competitors continue to reduce the price of their products, the price of branded products offered to consumers may approximate or be lower than the prices of our private-brand products. Further, promotional activities by branded competitors such as temporary price rollbacks, buy-one-get-one-free offerings and coupons have the effect of price decreases. Price decreases taken by competitors could result in a decline in our sales volumes. Significant private-brand competitive activity can lead to price declines. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the food retailer, super center or mass merchandiser until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects which are designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost saving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost savings initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Loss or bankruptcy or insolvency of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations. A limited number of customer accounts represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high volume food retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers. These high volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently re-evaluate the products they carry. If a major customer elected to stop carrying one of our products, our sales may be adversely affected. If our food products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We may need to recall some or all of our products if they become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. In addition, adverse publicity including claims, whether or not valid, that our products or ingredients are unsafe or of poor quality, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different and unexpected trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and trends, and to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat or other product attributes. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could limit financing and other options. As of September 30, 2011, we had long-term debt (including current maturities) of approximately $2,203.2 million. The agreements under which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future but our ability to comply with the financial covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our level of indebtedness may limit: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, to fund growth or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downward turn in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on the factors described above, as well as our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and may also impair our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. U.S. and global credit markets have from time to time experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 12 Table of Contents Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect earnings and financial position. We have operations and assets in Canada and Europe. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars; therefore, we must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar or the Euro may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of branded products. Terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time (less than two years). Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product’s life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume. Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing or increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer. Violations of laws or regulations, as well as new laws or regulations or changes into existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling, food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling, and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety and environmental matters. Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S. we are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and Labor as well as by similar authorities abroad. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In addition, we market and advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and may be subject to initiatives to limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a publicly traded company, we are further subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed. Our compensation programs are intended to attract and retain the employees required for it to be successful, but ultimately, we may not be able to attract new employees or retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute on our plans. If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports of dry pasta terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and the profit margins or market share of our pasta segment could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2012. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our full-time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to our qualified pension plan, which could negatively impact profits. We maintain a qualified defined benefit plan and we remain obligated to ensure that the plan is funded in accordance with applicable regulations. The fair value of pension plan assets (determined pursuant to ASC Topic 715 guidelines) was approximately $36.2 million below the total benefit obligation of the plan as of September 30, 2011 despite a $20 million contribution to the plan in fiscal 2011. In the event the stock market deteriorates, the funds in which we have invested do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to the pension plan and incur increased expense. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could negatively impact our net worth. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could negatively impact our net worth. For additional information on impairment of intangible assets, including recent impairment losses, refer to “Impairment of Intangible Assets” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 and Note 4 in Item 8. Technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but 14 Table of Contents not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. We have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections for intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management’s attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities. We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, storage, use, treatment, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines and penalties by governments or courts of law. In addition, various current and likely future federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business. While we believe that the future cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and liabilities associated with our operations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, any related damage claims, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action, or more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations, would not require us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricane, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar and wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Separation of the Post Cereals Business and Related Financing Transactions The combined post-separation value of Ralcorp and Post Holdings shares may not equal or exceed the pre-separation value of Ralcorp shares. After the separation of the Post cereals business, our common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “RAH.” Post Holdings intends to apply to have its common stock authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “POST.” The combined trading prices of Ralcorp common stock and Post common stock after the separation, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of these companies, may not be equal to or greater than the trading price of Ralcorp common stock prior to the separation. Until the market has fully evaluated the business of Ralcorp without the Post cereals business, the price at which Ralcorp common stock trade may fluctuate significantly. Potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. In connection with the separation, we intend to undertake financing transactions which, along with the separation and the financing transactions involving the separation, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. If a court were to determine under these laws that, at the time of the separation, any entity involved in these transactions or the separation: • was insolvent, • was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation, • had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital, or • intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, the court could void the separation, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require the new Post Holdings shareholders to return to Ralcorp some or all of the shares of the Post Holdings common stock issued pursuant to the separation, or require us or Post, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. The measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets were less than the amount of its liabilities or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. The separation could result in significant tax liability. We expect to receive a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain related transactions will qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code.” In addition, we expect to obtain an opinion from our legal counsel substantially to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain related transactions will qualify for tax-free treatment under the Code, and that accordingly, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, no gain or loss will be recognized by, and no amount will be included in the income of, a holder of Ralcorp common stock upon the receipt of shares of our common stock pursuant to the separation, except to the extent such holder receives cash in lieu of fractional shares of our common stock. Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the ruling will be based upon representations by us that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. The opinion referred to above will address all of the requirements necessary for the separation and certain related transactions to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code and will be based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations made by Post and us, which if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in such opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. If the separation does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the Post common stock and our senior notes in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Our shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of our earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each shareholder’s 16 Table of Contents tax basis in our stock, and thereafter as capital gain with respect to the remaining value. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to us and our shareholders would be substantial. In addition, even if the separation otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to corporate income tax if the retained shares, senior notes or cash received from Post are not disposed of in a qualifying manner. The tax rules applicable to the separation may restrict us from engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital beyond certain thresholds for a period of time after the separation. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of Post would be taxable to us, but not our shareholders, if such distribution is part of a “plan or series of related transactions” pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in Ralcorp or Post. Acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the distribution are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the distribution. U.S. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a distribution are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the U.S. Treasury regulations. In addition, the U.S. Treasury regulations provide several “safe harbors” for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan. These rules will limit our ability during the two-year period following the distribution to enter into certain transactions that may be advantageous to us and our shareholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, disposing of certain assets, engaging in mergers and acquisitions, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation to Ralcorp and its shareholders, under the Tax Allocation Agreement with Post Holdings, we will be prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and certain related transactions from being tax-free, and for the two-year period following the separation, we will be subject to restrictions with respect to: • entering into certain transactions pursuant to which all or a portion of our equity securities or assets would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, unless certain conditions are met; • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; • certain repurchases of our common shares; • ceasing to actively conduct our business; • amendments to our organizational documents or taking any other action affecting the relative voting rights of our stock; or • merging or consolidating with any other person or liquidating or partially liquidating. These restrictions may limit our ability during such period to pursue strategic transactions of a certain magnitude that involve the issuance or acquisition of our stock or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business. These restrictions may also limit our ability to raise significant amounts of cash through the issuance of stock, especially if our stock price were to suffer substantial declines, or through the sale of certain of our assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 