ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not achieve the growth or the financial results we expect if we are unable to identify and integrate acquisitions into our existing operations. We are a growth-through-acquisition company, and we have experienced significant growth in sales and operating profits through the execution of that strategy. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, on our ability to identify acquisition opportunities that we can execute on satisfactory terms. In addition, the success of future acquisitions will depend on our ability to successfully integrate those acquisitions into our existing operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our financial results could suffer. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions including additional leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, the inherent risks associated with entering a line of business in which we have no or limited prior experience, failure to achieve anticipated synergies, and the impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets. Price changes for the commodities that we depend on for raw materials, packaging and energy may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials that we use are commodities that experience price volatility caused by external conditions, such as weather, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging and energy costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and risk management procedures that we do use may not always work as we intend. The food categories in which we participate are very competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The food categories in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories all have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. In most product categories, we compete not only with widely advertised branded products, but also with other private label products, some of which may be sold at lower prices. Competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If our large competitors were to seek an advantage through pricing or promotional changes, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully manage the price gap between our private-brand products and those of our branded competitors may adversely affect our results of operation. Competitors’ branded products have an advantage over our private-brand products primarily due to advertising and name recognition. When branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private-brand products becomes more challenging because the price gaps between private-brand and branded products can become less meaningful. At our retail customers, private-brand products typically sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. If branded competitors reduce the price of their products to our retail customers, the price of those products to consumers may approximate or be lower than the prices of our private-brand products. Promotional activities by branded competitors such as temporary price rollbacks, buy-one-get-one-free offerings and coupons also have the effect of price decreases. Price decreases taken by competitors could result in a decline in our sales volumes. Significant private-brand competitive activity can lead to price declines. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the retail customer until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. In addition, in 2012, we outlined a strategic restructuring initiative to improve organizational effectiveness and reduce costs. If we are not able to complete the restructuring or other projects that are designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the restructuring or other initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. For additional information about the 2012 restructuring, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase less expensive private or value brands and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect margins. Consumers may also reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at customers that purchase products in our foodservice channels. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, we could be adversely impacted by the negative results on economic growth resulting from the combination of federal income tax increases and government spending restrictions potentially occurring at the end of calendar year 2012 in the United States (commonly referred to as the “fiscal cliff”). Loss or bankruptcy or insolvency of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations. A limited number of customer accounts represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high volume food retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers. These high volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently re-evaluate the products they carry. If a major customer elected to stop carrying one of our products, our sales may be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents If our food products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our business results. Concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid certain food products or ingredients. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business. Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, import restrictions, or other factors could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes and trends, or to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our sales and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, sodium or other product attributes. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other options. As of September 30, 2012, we had total debt of approximately $2,021.5 million. The agreements under which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness may limit: • ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and • flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt and other obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. 7 Table of Contents Further, while it is our objective to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit markets, any downgrade of our current credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us. Our debt agreements contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under such indebtedness, thereby materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. These financial covenants require we maintain a minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio, as defined, of 2.75:1; a maximum Leverage Ratio, as defined, of 3.75:1 and a minimum Adjusted Net Worth, as defined, of $1,511.9 million. On November 27, 2012, we entered into a waiver and amendment to our Accounts Receivable Securitization Agreement and our Revolving Credit Facility, each of which had an outstanding balance of zero at September 30, 2012, due to our failure to achieve a minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. We believe we will generate sufficient EBIT and EBITDA (both terms as defined by the agreements) to comply with our amended financial covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, and are unable to cure the violation within the allowable grace period, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing may also be adversely affected. A description of our indebtedness and financial covenants is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of MD&A in Item 7 of this report and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. We depend on stable, liquid, and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital and credit markets, and revolving-credit agreements will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect earnings and financial position. We have operations and assets in Canada and Europe. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars; therefore, we must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar or the Euro may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of branded products. The terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time. Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product’s life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume. We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing or increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer. New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business. Food production is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling, food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling, and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents As a publicly traded company, we are further subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed. Our compensation programs are intended to attract and retain the employees required for it to be successful, but ultimately, we may not be able to attract new employees or retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute on our plans. If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports of dry pasta terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and the profit margins or market share of our pasta segment could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2012. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our full-time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors or changes in our employee base could substantially increase our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States and Canada, including defined benefit pension and retiree health and welfare plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could negatively impact our net worth. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could 9 Table of Contents negatively impact our net worth. For additional information on impairment of intangible assets, including recent impairment losses, refer to “Impairment of Intangible Assets” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 and Notes 1, 3, and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections for intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management’s attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to footnote disclosures included in our Condensed Financial Statements of Guarantors footnote in our financial statements related to prior periods. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address the material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities. We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, storage, use, treatment, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines and penalties by governments 10 Table of Contents or courts of law. In addition, various current and likely future federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business. While we believe that the future cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and liabilities associated with our operations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, any related damage claims, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action, or more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations, would not require us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricane, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar and wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. In connection with the separation of the Post brand cereals business, Post agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Post’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Post in connection with the separation of the Post brand cereals business, Post agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Post agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from Post will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Post will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Post any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. The separation of the Post brand cereals business could result in significant tax liability. We obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution of shares of Post common stock in the spin-off qualified as tax free to Post, us and our shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment. Rather, the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the spin-off, we also obtained an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, the distribution of shares of Post common stock in the separation qualified as tax free to Post, us and our shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Post and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the separation were determined not to qualify as tax free, each U.S. holder of our common stock who received shares of Post common stock in the separation would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Post common stock received. We would be subject to tax as if we had sold all the 11 Table of Contents outstanding shares of Post common stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over our tax basis in such shares. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Post in connection with the separation, Post is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on Post or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the separation and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of actions taken, or breaches of representations and warranties made in the tax sharing agreement, by Post or any of its affiliates. However, if the separation or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or any of our affiliates, we would be responsible for all such taxes. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with ConAgra Foods, including the approval of our shareholders, in the anticipated timeframe. On November 26, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with ConAgra Foods, Inc. (“ConAgra Foods”) and Phoenix Acquisition Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ConAgra Foods (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which ConAgra Foods has agreed to acquire Ralcorp. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions therein, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Ralcorp (the “Merger”), with Ralcorp surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ConAgra Foods. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Ralcorp common stock (other than shares held by Ralcorp, ConAgra or any of their respective subsidiaries or by any holder who has properly exercised appraisal rights under Missouri Law) will be converted into the right to receive $90 per share in cash, without interest. Completion of the Merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the Merger Agreement by our shareholders. If our shareholders do not approve the Merger Agreement at a shareholder meeting to be held after the related proxy statement is mailed to shareholders, the Merger will not be consummated. Completion of the Merger is also conditioned upon the receipt of antitrust approvals in the United States and Canada. As a condition to approval of the Merger, governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs; require divestitures; or place restrictions on the conduct of the business of the combined company after the completion of the Merger. ConAgra is not obligated under the Merger Agreement to accept all such requirements in order to complete the Merger and, accordingly, may seek to assert closing conditions included in the Merger Agreement for its benefit relating to such matters. Although Ralcorp and ConAgra Foods have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use reasonable best efforts to consummate the Merger as promptly as practicable, these and the other conditions to the Merger may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the Merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Failure to complete the Merger may adversely affect Ralcorp. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results. The conditions to the completion of the Merger may not be satisfied as noted above. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • being required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, whether or not the Merger is completed; • having had the focus of our management directed towards the Merger and integration planning instead of our core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; • a decrease in the price of our common stock to the extent that the current market price of the stock reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the Merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business; and • a lack of alternative business combination transactions that would create shareholder value comparable to the value perceived to be created by the Merger in the event our Board of Directors determines to seek an alternative transaction following any termination of the Merger Agreement. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Merger and would continue to have risks that we currently face as an independent company. For example, our business may be harmed, and the price of our stock may decline as a result, to the extent that employees, customers, suppliers, and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the Merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the Merger. The Merger Agreement restricts the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger and limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal to the Merger. Under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect our ability to exercise certain of our business strategies. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. In addition, the Merger Agreement prohibits us from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of, participating or engaging in any negotiations or discussions with respect to certain alternative acquisition proposals with third parties, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides that we are required to pay a termination fee of $180 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including if we terminate to accept a superior alternative acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to receive or pursue offers from third parties that may otherwise have resulted in greater value to our shareholders than the value resulting from the Merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 