ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operation, financial condition or results. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth from acquisitions or continue to make acquisitions at the rate at which we have been acquiring in the past. We have experienced significant growth in sales and operating profits through the acquisition of other companies. However, acquisition opportunities may not always present themselves. In such cases, our sales and operating profit may not continue to grow from period to period at the same rate as it has in the past. The success of our acquisitions will depend on many factors, such as our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, negotiate satisfactory purchase terms, obtain loans at satisfactory rates to fund acquisitions and successfully integrate and manage the growth from acquisitions. Integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of newly acquired companies involve risks. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful or cost-effective in integrating any new businesses into our existing businesses. In fact, the process of integrating newly acquired businesses may cause interruption or slow down the operations of our existing businesses. As a result, we may not be able to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits. The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat (including durum wheat), nuts (including peanuts and cashews), sugar, edible oils, corn, oats, cocoa, eggs, and rice, and our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons, corrugated boxes, plastic containers and composite cans. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. We may experience shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions, and natural disasters as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel may increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for our products may lag behind changes in our energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. We generally use commodity futures and options to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated raw material purchases. Additionally, we have a hedging program for heating oil relating to diesel fuel prices, natural gas, and corrugated paper products. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends upon our assessment of the markets for these commodities, including our assumptions for future prices. For example, if we believe that market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or possibly not hedge any, of our future requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. We compete in mature categories with strong competition. We compete in mature segments with competitors that have a large percentage of segment sales. Our private-brand and branded products both face strong competition from branded competitors for shelf space and sales. Competitive pressures could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing, or lose category share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. This high level of competition by branded competitors could result in a decrease in our sales volumes. In addition, increased trade spending or advertising or reduced prices on our competitors’ products may require us to do the same for our products which could impact our margins and volumes. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully manage the price gap between our private-label products and those of our branded competitors may adversely affect our results of operation. Competitors’ branded products have an advantage over our private-brand products primarily due to advertising and name recognition. When branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private-brand products becomes more challenging because the price gaps between private-brand and branded products can become less meaningful. At the retail level, private-brand products sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. If branded competitors continue to reduce the price of their products, the price of branded products offered to consumers may approximate or be lower than the prices of our private-brand products. Further, promotional activities by branded competitors such as temporary price rollbacks, buy-one-get-one-free offerings and coupons have the effect of price decreases. Price decreases taken by competitors could result in a decline in our sales volumes. Significant private-brand competitive activity can lead to price declines. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the food retailer, super center or mass merchandiser until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects which are designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost saving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost savings initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Loss of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations. A limited number of customer accounts represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high volume food retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers. These high volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently re-evaluate the products they carry; if a major customer elected to stop carrying one of our products, our sales may be adversely affected. Product liability or recalls could result in significant and unexpected costs. We may need to recall some or all of our products or the products we co-manufacture for third parties if they become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. Any of these 11 Table of Contents events, including a significant product liability judgment against us could result in a loss of confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different and unexpected trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and trends, and to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat or other product attributes. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could limit financing and other options. As of September 30, 2010, we had long-term debt (including current maturities) of approximately $2,634.9 million. The agreements under which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future but our ability to comply with the financial covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our level of indebtedness may limit: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, to fund growth or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downward turn in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on the factors described above, as well as our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and may also impair our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. U.S. and global credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect earnings and financial position. We have operations and assets in Canada and Europe. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars; therefore, we must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar or the Euro may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. 12 Table of Contents The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of branded products. Terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time (less than two years). Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product’s life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume. Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek lower pricing or increased promotional pricing from suppliers since they represent more volume. As a result, our profit margins as a grocery and foodservice supplier may be negatively impacted. In the event of consolidation if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose key business once held with the acquired retailer. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our business. The food industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. As a publicly traded company, we are further subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports of dry pasta terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and the profit margins or market share of our pasta segment could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2012. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our full-time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a significant customer could negatively impact profits. Over the past few years we have seen an increasing number of customers file bankruptcy. As a result, the accounts receivable related to sales to these customers were not recovered. If our bad debt reserve is inadequate to cover the amounts owed by bankrupt customers, we may have to write off the amount of the receivable to the extent the receivable is greater than our bad debt reserve. In the event a bankrupt customer is not able to emerge from bankruptcy or we are not able to replace sales lost from such customer, our profits could be negatively impacted. 13 Table of Contents We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to our qualified pension plan, which could negatively impact profits. We maintain a qualified defined benefit plan. Although we have frozen benefits under the plan for all administrative employees and many production employees, we remain obligated to ensure that the plan is funded in accordance with applicable regulations. The fair value of pension plan assets (determined pursuant to ASC Topic 715 guidelines) was approximately $40 million below the total benefit obligation of the plan as of September 30, 2010 despite a $30 million contribution to the plan in fiscal 2010. In the event the stock market deteriorates, the funds in which we have invested do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to the pension plan and recognize increased expense within our financial statements. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could negatively impact our net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Impairments to goodwill and other acquired intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could negatively impact our net worth. For additional information on impairment of intangible assets refer to “Impairment of Intangible Assets” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7. Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricane, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar and wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 