ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations and financial condition. Continued increases in the cost of commodities could negatively impact profits. The primary commodities used by our businesses include sugar, oats, wheat, soybean oil, corn sweeteners, almonds and other tree nuts, glass containers, caps and plastic packaging. We may experience shortages in these items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions, and natural disasters as well as other factors outside of our control. Due to shortages, prices for these items are volatile. Changes in the prices of our products may lag behind changes in the costs of our commodities. Competitive pressures also may limit our ability to raise prices in response to increased raw and packaging material costs. Accordingly, if we are unable to increase our prices to offset these costs, these costs may have a material adverse effect on our operating profits and margins. Higher energy costs could negatively impact profits. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel increase our production and delivery costs. Many of our large manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. Our inability to respond to these cost increases may negatively affect our operating results. In addition, the Company has experienced increases in the cost of transporting finished goods to customers. Due to the increased cost of fuel and limited supply of freight carriers, the Company’s costs have risen. In the event that this situation continues to worsen, the Company may experience service problems and reduced customer sales. The Company may not be able to effectively manage the growth from acquisitions or continue to make acquisitions at the rate at which we have been acquiring in the past. The Company has experienced significant sales and operating profits through the acquisition of other companies. However, acquisition opportunities may not always present themselves. In such cases, the Company’s sales and operating profit may not continue to grow from period to period at the same rate as it has in the past. The success of our acquisitions will depend on many factors, such as our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, negotiate satisfactory purchase terms and our ability to successfully integrate and manage the growth from acquisitions. Integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of newly acquired companies, including the recently announced acquisition of the Post business from Kraft Foods Inc. (“Kraft”), involve risks. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful or cost-effective in integrating any new businesses into our existing businesses. In fact, the process of integrating newly acquired businesses may cause interruption or slow down the operations of our existing businesses. As a result, we may not be able to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. The integration of the Company’s and Post’s businesses may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the merger may not be realized. The recently announced acquisition of the Post business is the largest and most significant acquisition the Company has undertaken. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the Company's business and Post's business. Due to, among other things, the size and complexity of the Post business and the activities required to separate Post's operations from Kraft's, we may be unable to integrate the Post business into our operations in an efficient, timely and effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial condition and results of operations. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with needed expertise to integrate the Company’s and Post's businesses or to operate the combined company's business. Furthermore, Post offers services that we have limited experience in providing, the most significant of which are advertising and marketing services. If we do not hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run the combined business, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Even if we are able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the merger, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. The benefits of the merger may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity or energy prices, or in increased competition, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the combined company's private label and branded cereal products, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. Significant private label competitive activity can lead to price declines. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the food retailer, super center or mass merchandiser until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage the price gap between our private-label products and those of our branded competitors may adversely affect our results of operation. Competitors’ branded products have an advantage over our private label products primarily due to advertising and name recognition. When branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private label products becomes more challenging because the price gaps between private label and branded products can become less meaningful. At the retail level, private label products sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. If branded competitors continue to reduce the price of their products, the price of branded products offered to consumers may approximate or be lower than the prices of our private label products. Further, promotional activities by branded competitors such as temporary price rollbacks, buy-one-get-one-free offerings and coupons have the effect of price decreases. Price decreases taken by competitors could result in a decline in the Company’s sales volumes. Loss of one of the Company’s significant customers may adversely affect our results of operations. A limited number of customer accounts represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high volume food retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high volume stores is intense. These high volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently re-evaluate the products they carry; if a major customer elected to stop carrying one of our products, our sales may be adversely affected. Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects which are designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost saving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost savings initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different and unexpected trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and trends, and to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat or other product attributes. 10 Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar and wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. The Company competes in mature categories with strong competition. The Company’s businesses compete in mature segments with competitors that have a large percentage of segment sales. Our private label products face strong competition from branded competitors for shelf space and sales. Competitive pressures could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in the Company’s various markets and product lines could cause the Company to reduce prices, increase marketing, or lose category share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the Company. This high level of competition by branded competitors could result in a decrease in the Company’s sales volumes. The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of branded products. Terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time (less than two years). Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product’s life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could limit financing and other options. As of September 30, 2007, we had total debt of approximately $763.6 million. Our level of indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes. In addition, our indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downward turn in general economic conditions. The agreements governing our credit facilities impose restrictions on our business. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. A default under our debt instruments may also impair our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt or other obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect earnings and financial position. On November 15, 2005, the Company completed the purchase of Western Waffles, Ltd., a Canadian manufacturer of private label frozen griddle products. A significant portion of Western Waffles sales are to customers in the United States and are denominated in U.S. currency, so a devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar could result in lower earnings. In addition, the Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars; the Company must translate its Canadian assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar may negatively 11 affect the value of these items in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. To the extent the Company fails to manage its foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment and the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. If our assessments and assumptions about commodity prices, as well as ingredient and other prices, prove to be incorrect in connection with our hedging or forward-buy efforts or planning cycles, our costs may be greater than anticipated and our financial results could be adversely affected. We generally use commodity futures and options to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases of oats, sugar, tree nuts, and wheat used in the production of certain of our products. Additionally, we have a hedging program for heating oil relating to diesel fuel prices, natural gas, and corrugated paper products. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends upon our assessment of the markets for these commodities, including our assumptions for future prices. For example, if we believe that market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or possibly not hedge any, of our future requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek lower pricing or increased promotional pricing from suppliers since they represent more volume. As a result, our profit margins as a grocery and foodservice supplier may be negatively impacted. In the event of consolidation if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose key business once held with the acquired retailer. Ownership of Vail Resorts creates a risk to the Company’s earnings. The Company owns approximately 19% of the outstanding common stock of Vail Resorts, Inc (“Vail”). Because we account for this investment using the equity method of accounting, our non-cash earnings may be adversely affected by unfavorable results from Vail. Vail typically yields more than the entire year’s equity income during our second and third fiscal quarters; as a result our net earnings are seasonal. In addition, Vail’s results of operations are also dependant in part on weather conditions and consumer discretionary spending trends. In light of our significant ownership in Vail, changes in its common stock price or earnings can impact our stock price. Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our full-time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could negatively impact the Company’s net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to cash flows of the Company are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Impairments to goodwill may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could negatively impact the Company’s net worth. Product liability or recalls could result in significant and unexpected costs to the Company. The Company may need to recall some or all of its products if they become adulterated or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us could result in a loss of confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 New laws or regulations could adversely affect our business. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our costs of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, as we advertise our products, we could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a significant customer could negatively impact profits. Over the past five years we have had several customers file bankruptcy. As a result, the accounts receivable related to sales to these customers were not recovered. If the Company’s bad debt reserve is inadequate to cover the amounts owed by bankrupt customers, the Company may have to write off the amount of the receivable to the extent the receivable is greater than our bad debt reserve. In the event a bankrupt customer is not able to emerge from bankruptcy or the Company is not able to replace sales lost from such customer, our profits could be negatively impacted. The Company may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to its qualified pension plan, which could negatively impact profits. The Company maintains a qualified defined benefit plan. Although the Company has frozen benefits under the plan for all administrative employees and many production employees, the Company remains obligated to ensure that the plan is funded in accordance with applicable regulations. As of September 30, 2007, the qualified plan is fully funded pursuant to FAS 87 guidelines. In the event the stock market deteriorates, the funds in which the Company has invested do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, the Company may be required to make significant cash contributions to the pension plan and recognize increased expense within its financial statements. 13 ITEM 