ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses, educational institutions and the government may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in products delays, inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and inability of our channel partners and other customers to pay accounts receivable owed to us, or delays in the payment of such receivables. Additionally, if these economic conditions persist, our intangible assets may be impaired. Economic conditions may have a disproportionate affect on the sale of our products. Many of our customers will look at the total A/V equipment and labor cost to outfit a typical conference room or lecture hall as one amount for budgetary purposes. Consequently, although our products represent only a portion of the total cost, the entire project of outfitting a room or conference hall may be considered excessive and may not survive budgetary constraints. Alternatively, our resellers may modify their quotes to end customers by eliminating our products or substituting less expensive competitive products in order to win opportunities within budget constraints. Event service partners may similarly suggest that customers eliminate recording and webcasting as a means of reducing event cost. Consequently, declines in spending by government, educational or corporate institutions due to budgetary constraints may have a disproportionate impact on the Company and result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 We may need to raise additional capital if we do not quickly become profitable. At September 30, 2008 we had cash of $3.6 million and availability under our line of credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank of $2.3 million. The Company has historically financed its operations primarily through cash from sales of equity securities, cash from operations, and to a limited extent, through bank credit facilities. The Company has incurred losses from operations in each of the last three fiscal years. In response to the recurring operating losses, the Company initiated cost reduction efforts in January 2008. These efforts achieved a 24% reduction in quarterly operating expenses. The Company anticipates operating expenses to remain at or near these reduced levels in fiscal 2009. Although the Company anticipates growth in billings in fiscal 2009, it believes its cash position is adequate to accomplish its business plan through at least the next twelve months even if billings remain unchanged and therefore has no plans to seek additional debt or equity financing or to issue additional shares previously registered in its available shelf registration. We may evaluate further operating or capital lease opportunities to finance equipment purchases in the future and may utilize the Company’s revolving line of credit to support working capital needs, if the Company deems it advisable to do so. While the Company anticipates limited use of the line of credit and that it will be in compliance with all provisions of the agreement, there can be no assurance that the existing Loan Agreement will remain available to the Company nor that additional financing will be available or on terms acceptable to the Company. The business environment is not currently conducive to raising additional debt or equity financing and may not improve in the near term. If we borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we raise additional equity, the terms of such financing may dilute the ownership interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall significantly. We may not be able to secure financing upon acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm our business, operating results, and financial condition We have a history of losses. For the year ended September 30, 2008, we had a gross margin of $11.4 million on revenue of $15.6 million with which to cover selling, marketing, product development and general administrative costs. Our selling, marketing, product development and general administration costs have historically been a significant percentage of our revenue, due partly to the expense of developing leads and the relatively long period required to convert leads into sales associated with selling products that are not yet considered “mainstream” technology investments. For the year ended September 30, 2008, our operating expenses exceeded our gross margin by 69%. Although we expect our operating losses as a percentage of revenue to decline during fiscal 2009, we may never achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We could lose revenues if there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools and other education providers. Most of our customers and potential customers are public colleges, universities, schools and other education providers who depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, schools and other education providers could cause our current and potential customers to reduce their purchases of our products and services, or to decide not to renew service contracts, either of which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenues. Also, public and some private colleges and higher education institutions have been significantly and adversely affected by the financial market downturn, which may adversely impact sales of our products. 16 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 If we are unable to comply with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Since March 2008, our common stock has failed to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for at least 10 consecutive days, which caused our stock price to fail to meet one of the minimum standards required by the Nasdaq Stock Market for continued listing as a Nasdaq Global Market security. On March 10, 2008 we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that we need to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by September 8, 2008 in order to remain on the Nasdaq Global Market. On September 9, 2008 we were notified by Nasdaq that we had failed to regain compliance with the minimum bid price during the 180 days provided and our securities were therefore subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market. In response, we applied for and were notified on September 12, 2008 by Nasdaq that Nasdaq approved our request to transfer the listing of our shares to the Nasdaq Capital Market. Transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market and compliance with its initial listing standards affords an additional 180 day period for our stock to attain the minimum $1.00 bid price for at least 10 consecutive business days until March 9, 2009. In response to weak market conditions, Nasdaq suspended enforcement of the minimum bid price requirement on October 16, 2008 through January 16, 2009. Nasdaq notified us on October 22, 2008 that the suspension extends the period for us to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule until June 9, 2009. We may not regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 bid price requirement during the additional period and our stock may be delisted, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity currently available to our stockholders. Delisting would also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or impact customer confidence. If our common stock is removed from the Nasdaq Capital Market, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common shares. Additionally, our stock may then be subject to “penny stock” regulations. If a sufficient number of customers do not accept our products, our business may not succeed. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop, and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince enterprise customers of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings, suitability and other benefits of our products. Our future revenue and revenue growth rates will depend in large part on our success in delivering these products effectively, creating market acceptance for these products, and meeting customer’s needs for new or enhanced products. If we fail to do so, our products will not achieve widespread market acceptance, and we may not generate significant revenue to offset our product development and selling and marketing costs, which will hurt our business. We may not be able to innovate to meet the needs of our target market. Our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products or product enhancements that address future needs of our target markets and to respond to these changing standards and practices. Our revenue could be reduced if we do not capitalize on our current market leadership by timely developing innovative new products or product enhancements that will increase the likelihood that our products will be accepted in preference to the products of our current and future competitors. Multiple unit sales may fail to materialize. We need to sell multiple units to educational, corporate and government institutions in order to sell most efficiently and become profitable. In fiscal 2008, 59% of recorder revenue were to existing customers compared to 55% in fiscal 2007. At September 30, 2008, 543 customers had purchased multiple units compared to 286 customers at September 30, 2007. In particular, selling multiple units to corporate customers has lagged results achieved in the higher education market; consequently, we have allocated more resources to the higher education market. While we have addressed a strategy to leverage existing customers and close multiple unit transactions, a customer may choose not to make expected purchases of our products. The failure of our customers to make expected purchases will harm our business. If our marketing and lead generation efforts are not successful, our business will be harmed. We believe that continued marketing efforts will be critical to achieve widespread acceptance of our products. Our marketing campaign may not be successful given the expense required. For example, failure to adequately generate and develop sales leads 17 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 could cause our future revenue growth to decrease. In addition, our inability to generate and cultivate sales leads into large organizations, where there is the potential for significant use of our products, could have a material effect on our business. We may not be able to identify and secure the number of strategic sales leads necessary to help generate marketplace acceptance of our products. If our marketing or lead-generation efforts are not successful, our business and operating results will be harmed. The length of our sales and deployment cycle is uncertain, which may cause our revenue and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. During our sales cycle, we spend considerable time and expense providing information to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products without generating corresponding revenue. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and based in part on our expectations of future revenue. Therefore, any delay in our sales cycle could cause significant variations in our operating results, particularly because a relatively small number of customer orders represent a large portion of our revenue. We anticipate that some of our largest sources of revenue will be educational institutions, large corporations and government entities that often require long testing and approval processes before making a decision to purchase our products, particularly when evaluating our products for inclusion in new buildings under construction or high dollar transactions. In general, the process of selling our products to a potential customer may involve lengthy negotiations, collaborations with consultants, designers and architects, time consuming installation processes and changes in network infrastructure in excess of what we or our VARs are able to provide. As a result, we anticipate that our sales cycle will be unpredictable. Our sales cycle will also be subject to delays as a result of customer-specific factors over which we have little or no control, including budgetary constraints and internal approval procedures. Our products are aimed toward a broadened user base within our key markets. These products are relatively early in their product life cycles and we are relatively inexperienced with their sales cycle. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince targeted users of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings and other benefits. Accordingly, it is likely that delays in our sales cycles with these products will occur and this could cause significant variations in our operating results. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our first fiscal quarter. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the higher education and corporate markets in the first fiscal quarter of each year. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales typically occur at the end of a quarter and the mix of product and service orders may vary significantly. Revenue for any particular quarter is extremely difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We typically ship products within a short time after we receive an order and therefore, we typically do not have an order backlog with which to estimate future revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn significantly negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. Accordingly, our expectations for both short and long-term future revenue is based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand based on the “pipeline” of sales opportunities we manage, rather than on firm channel partner orders. Our expense levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, the majority of our orders are received in the last month of a quarter, typically the last few weeks of that quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. We historically have received a majority of our channel partner orders in the last month of a quarter and often in the last few days of the quarter. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in demand for our products in relation to our expectations would have an adverse impact on our operating results. 18 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 We have experienced growing demand for our hosting and event services as well as a growing preference from our corporate customers in purchasing our solution as a service (SaaS). As a result, we expect that service billings as a percentage of total billings will continue to grow which we believe will ultimately lead to higher gross margins and more recurring revenue. The percentage of billings represented by service is also likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality of event services and other factors. Since services are typically billed in advance of providing the service, revenue is initially deferred, leading to reduced current period revenue with a corresponding negative impact to profits or losses in periods of significant growth in billings for deferred services. An increase, or significant fluctuation, in service billings as a percentage of total billings may therefore lead to a temporary decline in our reported revenue. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners’ product inventories and product sell-through. We sell a significant amount of our products to Synnex and other channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a recurrence of global economic uncertainty and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenue would be negatively affected. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory, due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenue in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, which would harm our business. If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide some of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of alternate products. We also provide price protection rights to most of our distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot be assured that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints would harm our business. We subcontract the manufacture of our products to a third-party contract manufacturer in Alabama. Although we believe there are multiple sources of supply from other contract manufacturers as well as multiple suppliers of component parts to the contract manufacturer, a short term disruption of supply of component parts or completed products near the end of a quarter would have a negative impact on our revenues. Moreover, any incapacitation of the manufacturing site due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation. Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables. A significant portion of our sales are fulfilled by VARs, regional distributors or master distributors. As an example, 44% of our billings in 2008 were to Synnex, a master distributor who fulfills demand from other distributors, VARs or end users. While our distributors and VARs typically maintain payment terms consistent with other end users, a delay in payment may occur as a result of a number of factors including changes in demand, general economic factors, financial performance, inventory levels or disputes over payments. Any delay from Synnex, or other large distributors or VARs could have a material impact on the collections of our receivables during a particular quarter. 19 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 Over the past year we have begun to expand the level of sales representation in Europe and Asia as well as other international regions. We offer credit terms to some of our international customers; however, payments tend to go beyond terms in certain countries. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow as a percentage of our revenue, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years. Accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, cause us to defer revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our products and services. Revenue recognition for our products and services is complex and subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance as well as varied interpretations and implementation practices for such rules. These rules require us to defer revenue recognition in certain situations. Factors that are considered in revenue recognition include those such as vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), the inclusion of other services and contingencies to payment terms. We expect that we will continue to defer portions of our product and service billings because of these factors. The amounts deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, as well as the actual contract terms. Additional changes in authoritative guidance or changes in practice in applying such rules could also cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or recognize lower revenue Because most of our service contracts are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our service renewal rate could significantly reduce our revenues. Our clients have no obligation to renew their content hosting agreements, customer support contracts or other annual service contracts after the expiration of the initial period, which is typically one year, and some clients have elected not to do so. A decline in renewal rates could cause our revenues to decline. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of renewals, so we cannot accurately predict future renewal rates. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including client dissatisfaction with our products and services, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market or budgetary constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our clients. Because we generally recognize revenues ratably over the term of our service contracts, downturns or upturns in service transactions will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We recognize most of our revenues from service contracts monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 12 months, although terms can range from less than one month to over 36 months. As a result, much of the service revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter, and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. This ratable revenue recognition also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new clients must be recognized over the applicable agreement term. There is a great deal of competition in the market for our products, which could lower the demand for our products. The market for one-to-many multimedia web communication is relatively new, and we face competition from other companies that provide related digital media applications, such as Apple. Companies like Cisco (WebEx), Microsoft and Citrix offer web conferencing applications. Although part of the overall web communications landscape, these solutions are designed primarily for smaller group collaborative communications versus one-to-many communications. Accordent Technologies, Tegrity, Echo360, Panopto and other vendors provide presentation authoring and capture capabilities, but currently we believe they lack the breadth or depth of content management capabilities required for online multimedia presentations in an enterprise-wide deployment. Current and potential customers may choose to develop their own home-grown web communications software and services which may compete 20 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 with Mediasite. We may also compete indirectly with larger system integrators who embed or integrate competing technologies into their custom-built product offerings. If one of these alternative approaches is received more favorably in the marketplace, a new approach or technology is developed or an existing or new competitor markets more effectively than we do or we otherwise do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. In addition, the more successful we are in the emerging markets our products address, the more competitors are likely to emerge, including turnkey media application, streaming media platform developers, digital music infrastructure providers, and digital media applications service providers (including for digital musical subscription). Many of our competitors have far greater financial resources than we do, and could easily overtake the marketplace and severely harm our business. We may also face competition from foreign suppliers and competition from Course Management Systems (CMS) or education information technology (IT) companies. The presence of these competitors could reduce the demand for our systems, and we may not have the financial resources to compete successfully. Our customers may use our products to share confidential and sensitive information, and if our system security is breached, our reputation could be harmed and we may lose customers. Our customers may use our products to share confidential and sensitive information, the security of which is critical to their business. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. Customers may take inadequate security precautions with their sensitive information and we may inadvertently make that information public on our www.mediasite.com website. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security, and any breach could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. In addition, customers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to resolve problems caused by any breach, including litigation-related expenses if we are sued. Operational failures in our network infrastructure could disrupt our remote hosting services, could cause us to lose clients and sales to potential clients and could result in increased expenses and reduced revenues. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of the hosting services we provide to some of our clients. We provide remote hosting through computer hardware, some of which is within our facility and some of which is currently located in a third-party co-location facility. We do not control the operation of this co-location facility. Lengthy interruptions in our hosting service could be caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, power loss, vandalism or other telecommunications problems at the co-location facility or if this co-location facility were to close without adequate notice. We currently do not have adequate computer hardware and systems to provide alternative service for most of our hosted clients in the event of an extended loss of service at the co-location facility. We are not equipped to provide full disaster recovery to all of our hosted clients. If there are operational failures in our network infrastructure that cause interruptions, slower response times, loss of data or extended loss of service for our remotely hosted clients, we may be required to issue credits or pay penalties, current clients may terminate their contracts or elect not to renew them, and we may lose sales to potential clients. If we determine that we need additional hardware and systems, we may be required to make further investments in our network infrastructure. The technology underlying our products and services is complex and may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products. The technology underlying our products is complex and includes software that is internally developed, software licensed from third parties and hardware purchased from third parties. These products may contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We may not discover defects that affect our current or new applications or enhancements until after they are sold and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our complete liability exposure. Any defects in our products and services could: • Damage our reputation; 21 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 • Cause our customers to initiate product liability suits against us; • Increase our product development resources; • Cause us to lose sales; and • Delay market acceptance of our products. If we are viewed only as a commodity supplier, our margins and valuations will shrink. We need to provide value-added services in order to avoid being viewed as a commodity supplier. This entails building long-term customer relationships and developing features that will distinguish our products. Our technology is complex and is often confused with other products and technologies in the market place, including video conferencing, streaming and collaboration. If we fail to build long-term customer relationships and develop features that distinguish our products in the market place, our margins will shrink, and our stock may become less valued to investors. Our success depends upon the proprietary aspects of our technology. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. We currently have two U.S. patents that have been issued to us and five U.S. patent applications that are pending. We may seek additional patents in the future. Our current patent applications cover different aspects of the technology used in our products which is important to our ability to compete. However, it is possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • any patents acquired by or issued to us may not be broad enough to protect us; • any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; • current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents; and • effective patent protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our patent-related assets, may not be available in every country in which we do or plan to do business. We also rely upon trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our technology, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our technology. We have registered seven U.S. and four foreign country trademarks. These forms of intellectual property protection are critically important to our ability to establish and maintain our competitive position. However, • third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights; • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter others from developing similar technologies; • effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our trademark, copyright or trade secret assets, may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries; • other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks; and • policing unauthorized use of our services and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 If other parties bring infringement or other claims against us, we may incur significant costs or lose customers. Other companies may obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would limit our ability to conduct our business and could assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs to defend any legal proceedings, even if without merit, and intellectual property litigation could force us to cease using key technology, obtain a license, or redesign our products. In the course of our business, we may sell certain systems to our customers, and in connection with such sale, we may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to these systems. In particular, claims are currently being made by holders of patents against educational institutions using streaming in their curriculum. We could be subject to similar claims, which could harm our business. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales, and other critical personnel. Certain of our officers and certain of our other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past, sometimes to accept employment with companies that sell similar products or services to existing or potential customers of ours. There will likely be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future and such departures could result in additional competition, loss of customers or confusion in the marketplace. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, and the results of our operations. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Rimas Buinevicius, or our co-founder and Chief Technology Officer, Monty Schmidt, would harm our business. Although we do have employment agreements with Messrs. Buinevicius and Schmidt, we do not have life insurance policies on any of our key employees. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. Because our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international sales of our products. International product and service revenue ranged from 14% to 19% of our total billings in each of the past three years. Our international operations are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our business in the future. However, in the future we may be unable to maintain or increase international sales of our products and services. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including: • difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels; • difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products and in translating products into foreign languages; • the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; • currency and exchange rate fluctuations; and • economic or political changes in international markets. We face risks associated with government regulation of the internet, and related legal uncertainties. Currently, few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws generally applicable to businesses. Many Internet-related laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, in individual states and local jurisdictions and in other countries. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including encryption, network and information security, and the convergence of traditional communication services, such as telephone services, with Internet communications, taxes and wireless networks. These types of regulations could differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions both inside and outside the United States. Non-U.S. countries and political organizations may impose, or favor, more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In 23 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 addition, state and local governments within the United States may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for, and the costs associated with, our products and services. The adoption of such laws and regulations may harm our business. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will result in further dilution. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders, and may reduce the trading price of our common stock. At September 30, 2008, we had 566 thousand of outstanding warrants and 6.2 million of outstanding stock options granted under our 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan, our 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and our Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plans, 4.8 million of which are immediately exercisable. To the extent that these stock options or warrants are exercised, dilution to the interests of our stockholders will likely occur. Additional options and warrants may be issued in the future at prices not less than 85% of the fair market value of the underlying security on the date of grant. Exercises of these options or warrants, or even the potential of their exercise may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. The holders of our options or our warrants are likely to exercise them at times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the securities. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the options and warrants will likely result in dilution of the equity represented by the then outstanding shares of common stock held by other stockholders. Holders of our options and warrants can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms, which are more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided, by these options and warrants. We may need to make acquisitions or form strategic alliances or partnerships in order to remain competitive in our market, and potential future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We may acquire or form strategic alliances or partnerships with other businesses in the future in order to remain competitive or to acquire new technologies. As a result of these acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships, we may need to integrate products, technologies, widely dispersed operations and distinct corporate cultures. The products, services or technologies of the acquired companies may need to be altered or redesigned in order to be made compatible with our software products and services, or the software architecture of our customers. These integration efforts may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our existing business. Our failure to successfully manage future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our stockholders would be diluted if we finance the acquisition, strategic alliances or partnerships by incurring convertible debt or issuing equity securities. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented regulatory requirements and guidance, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. Although our non-affiliate market capitalization was less than $75 million at March 31, 2008 and we are no longer required to be fully compliant with both the management assessment and auditor attestations, current SEC rules would require us to be fully compliant at September 30, 2010. We cannot assure that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot assure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to 24 Table of Contents Sonic Foundry, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K For the Year Ended September 30, 2008 assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, this may cause our stock price to decline. Provisions of our charter documents and Maryland law could also discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Furthermore, our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors, which means that our stockholders may vote upon the retention of only one or two of our seven directors each year. Moreover, Maryland corporate law restricts certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders” and limits voting rights upon certain acquisitions of “control shares.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 