D. RISK FACTORS We are engaged primarily in transporting crude oil and oil products and expect, with the acquisition of two Capesize bulk carriers in 2009, to operate in the dry bulk market. The following summarizes some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings Historically, the tanker industry has been highly cyclical, with volatility in profitability and asset values resulting from changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity. If the tanker market is depressed in the future, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current spot, time and bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for oil tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: ● demand for oil and products; ● global and regional economic and political conditions; ● changes in oil production and refining capacity; ● environmental and other regulatory developments; ● the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and ● changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: ● the number of newbuilding deliveries; ● the scrapping rate of older vessels; ● port or canal congestion; ● vessel casualties; ● price of steel; ● potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; ● the number of vessels that are out of service; and ● changes in environmental and other regulations that may effectively cause reductions in the carrying capacity of vessels or early obsolescence of tonnage. The international tanker industry has experienced historically high charter rates and vessel values in the recent past and there can be no assurance that these historically high charter rates and vessel values will be sustained Charter rates in the tanker industry are volatile. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economy as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. We believe that these charter rates are the result of continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in global vessel capacity. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A decline in charter rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividend. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil may adversely affect our financial performance The demand for our very large crude carrier, or VLCC, oil tankers derives primarily from demand for Arabian Gulf and West African crude oil, along with crude oil from the former Soviet Union, or the FSU, which, in turn, primarily depends on the economies of the world's industrial countries and competition from alternative energy sources. A wide range of economic, social and other factors can significantly affect the strength of the world's industrial economies and their demand for Arabian Gulf crude oil. One such factor is the price of worldwide crude oil. The world's oil markets have experienced high levels of volatility in the last 25 years. If oil prices were to rise dramatically, the economies of the world's industrial countries may experience a significant downturn. 3 Any decrease in shipments of crude oil from the above mentioned geographical areas would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Among the factors which could lead to such a decrease are: · increased crude oil production from other areas; · increased refining capacity in the Arabian Gulf area; · increased use of existing and future crude oil pipelines in the Arabian Gulf area; · a decision by Arabian Gulf, West African and FSU oil-producing nations to increase their crude oil prices or to further decrease or limit their crude oil production; · armed conflict in the Arabian Gulf and West Africa and and political or other factors; and · the development and the relative costs of nuclear power, natural gas, coal and other alternative sources of energy. An increase in the supply of vessel capacity without an increase in demand for vessel capacity would likely cause charter rates and vessel values to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently there is significant newbuilding activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases and the demand for vessel capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels as well as the value of our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates and vessel values would likely have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · a marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; and · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable tanker operator. Safety, environmental and other governmental and other requirements expose us to liability, and compliance with current and future regulations could require significant additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictions in which our tankers and other vessels operate and the country or countries in which such vessels are registered, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, or CLC; International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. 4 Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo-capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in United States waters. Similarly, CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Maritime claimants could arrest our tankers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. This amount could be materially less than the charterhire that would have been payable otherwise. In addition, we would bear all risk of loss or damage to a vessel under requisition for hire. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels would negatively impact our revenues. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues experience seasonal variations that may affect our income We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. Historically, oil trade and therefore charter rates increased in the winter months and eased in the summer months as demand for oil in the Northern Hemisphere rose in colder weather and fell in warmer weather. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in the winter months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling. The tanker industry in general is less dependent on the seasonal transport of heating oil than a decade ago as new uses for oil and oil products have developed, spreading consumption more evenly over the year. Most apparent is a higher seasonal demand during the summer months due to energy requirements for air conditioning and motor vehicles. The oil price volatility resulting from these factors has historically led to increased oil trading activities and demand for vessels. The change in demand for vessels may affect the charter rates that we receive. 5 Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels which may adversely affect our earnings The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on but not limited to the following factors: ● general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; ● competition from other shipping companies; ● types and sizes of vessels; ● other modes of transportation; ● cost of newbuildings; ● shipyard capacity; ● governmental or other regulations; ● age of vessels; ● prevailing level of charter rates; and ● technological advances. If we sell a vessel at a time when ship prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we could incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. In addition, if we determine at any time that a 'vessel’s future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction of our shareholders’ equity. It is possible that the market value of our vessels will decline in the future. We operate in the highly competitive international tanker market and we may not be able to effectively compete which would negatively affect our results of operations The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products and the other businesses in which we operate are extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. We compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies for charterers. Due in part to the fragmented tanker market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through acquisitions or consolidations and may be able to offer better prices and fleets, which could result in our achieving lower revenues from our VLCC oil tankers. We receive a portion of our charterhire revenue from a limited number of customers including Frontline Ltd. We will derive a significant portion of our revenues from two charters with Frontline Ltd, or Frontline, a Bermuda corporation. If we were to lose one or both of our charters with Frontline, or any of our other customers, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement charter for the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as under our current charters. The loss of any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our tankers Currently, all four of our tankers are contractually committed to time charters, with the remaining terms of these charters expiring on dates between 2009 and 2012. Although these time charters generally provide reliable revenues, they also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully employ our tankers in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. A decline in charter or spot rates or a failure to successfully charter our tankers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividends. 6 Delays or defaults by the shipyard in the construction of our new vessels could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows We have entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of two Capesize bulk carriers with Daehan Shipbuilding Co. Ltd in the Republic of Korea. We have also entered into related long-term time charters for employment of these vessels upon their expected delivery in 2009. The newbuilding projects are subject to the risk of delay or defaults by the shipyard caused by, among other things, the financial condition of the shipyard, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyard is unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels, we may not have substantial remedies. In addition, if the delivery of any of the newbuildings is cancelled or significantly delayed, we might be unable to perform under the related long-term time charters, which may be cancelled. Failure to construct or deliver the ships by the shipyard or any significant delays could increase our expenses and result in cancellation of the related long-term time charters diminishing our net income and cash flows. We have no history of operating dry bulk carriers and we may not be able to enter, or effectively manage our entry into dry bulk market, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividend We have entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of two Capesize bulk carriers and expect to take delivery of these in 2009. Acquisition and management of these vessels will impose significant responsibilities on our management and staff. We do not have any experience transporting dry bulk products nor do we have any history of operating or competing in that business. As we have no history of operating dry bulk carriers, it is difficult to predict our needs when entering into the dry bulk market. We will also have to market our services to a new customer base so that we can provide continued deployment of our vessels. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future line of business which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. As we expand our fleet, we may not be able to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels which may limit our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer As we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable crew, shoreside, administrative and management personnel. We may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet of vessels. If we are unable to recruit suitable employees and crews, we may not be able to provide our services to customers, our growth may be limited and our financial performance may suffer. We may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or enter into new time charters for newbuildings Currently, all of our vessels are employed on time charters. We have also entered into long-term charters for the employment of our two Capesize bulk carriers upon their expected delivery in 2009. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time charters will be renewed or that we will be successful in entering into new time charters on the newbuildings that will be delivered to the Company or if renewed or entered into, that they will be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters or delivery of newbuildings, we are unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, the Company’s profitability may be adversely affected. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under time charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. 7 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to move to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to drydocking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would decrease our earnings. Incurrence of expenses or liabilities may reduce or eliminate distributions Our policy is to make distributions to shareholders based on the Company's earnings and cash flow. The amount and timing of dividends will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, cash position, Bermuda law affecting the payment of distributions and other factors. However, we could incur other expenses or contingent liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution by us as dividends. Our loan agreement prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends if we are in default under such loan agreement. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Our debt service obligations could affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness or engage in certain transactions Our existing financing agreements impose operational and financing restrictions on us which may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell capital shares of subsidiaries, make certain investments, engage in mergers and acquisitions, purchase and sell vessels, enter into time or consecutive voyage charters or pay dividends without the consent of our lenders. In addition, our lenders may accelerate the maturity of indebtedness under our financing agreements and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including our failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in our financing agreements, not rectified within the permitted time. For instance, declining vessel values could lead to a breach of covenants under our financing agreements. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral or obtain waivers from our lenders, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels. In addition, if the lenders accelerate the debt outstanding under one facility in default, it could result in a default on our other facilities. We may not be able to finance our newbuilding program As of December 31, 2007 we had outstanding commitments of approximately $129.6 million with respect to our contracted newbuildings. We intend to fund this from existing cash resources and new bank financing, which may contain terms and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility. Our liquidity position will be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract bank financing for our newbuilding program. 8 We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if our vessels are damaged or lost We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. Additionally, our insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, regulatory, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. The terrorist attacks against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the military response by the United States has increased the likelihood of acts of terrorism worldwide. Acts of terrorism, regional hostilities or other political instability, as shown by the attack on the Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, attacks on oil pipelines during and subsequent to the Iraq war in 2003 and attacks on expatriate workers in the Middle East could adversely affect the oil trade and reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, govern our affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company; not to the company’s shareholder. Our shareholders may not have a direct course of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our Bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission except for an act or omission constituting fraud, dishonesty or illegality. Because our offices and most of our assets are outside the United States, you may not be able to bring suit against us, or enforce a judgment obtained against us in the United States Our executive offices, administrative activities and assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against us in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as us and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 9 If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 4% United States federal income tax on the gross shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our Liberian subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation, which would materially reduce our Liberian subsidiaries’, and consequently our, net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax The Republic of Liberia enacted an income tax law generally effective as of January 1, 2001, or the New Act, which repealed, in its entirety, the prior income tax law in effect since 1977, pursuant to which our Liberian subsidiaries, as non-resident domestic corporations, were wholly exempt from Liberian tax. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations, or the New Regulations, pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from tax as under prior law. If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, our Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as a shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe that future ongoing costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. ITEM 