Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) PART II: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV: Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES: (3) Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS History As used herein the terms "We", the "Company", "CHFR", the "Registrant," or the "Issuer" refers to China Fruits Corporation, its subsidiary and predecessors, unless indicated otherwise. We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on January 6, 1993, as Vaxcel, Inc. On December 19, 2000, we changed our name to eLocity Networks Corporation. On August 6, 2002, we changed our name to Diversified Financial Resources Corporation. In May 2006, our board decided to redomicile from the State of Delaware to the State of Nevada. Their decision was approved by the holders of a majority of the voting rights and common stock. On August 18, 2006, we changed our name to China Fruits Corporation. We began operating as a holding company in 2005. The primary objectives involved creating and managing a comprehensive portfolio of companies in key industry sectors. We did not meet our primary objectives in 2005. As a result, during 2005 we decided to sell all of our real estate properties, and discontinued the operations of all of our subsidiaries. In the first quarter of 2006, our operations from continuing activities consisted of its investment in an oil and gas property in Texas, which was disposed during the second quarter of 2006. As of April 1, 2006, we entered into a Plan of Exchange (the “Agreement”), between and among us, Jiang Xi Tai Na Guo Ye You Xian Gong Si, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“PRC”), which changed its corporate name to Jiangxi Taina Nanfeng Orange Co., Ltd. in February of 2007 (collectively referred to herein as “Tai Na”), the shareholders of Tai Na (the “Tai Na Shareholders”) and our Majority Shareholder. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, two simultaneous transactions were consummated at closing, as follows: (i) our Majority Shareholder delivered 13,150 of our convertible Series A preferred shares and 12,100,000 non-convertible Series B preferred shares to the Tai Na Shareholders in exchange for total payments of $500,000 in cash and (ii) we issued to the Tai Na Shareholders an amount equal to 30,000,000 new investment shares of our common stock pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in exchange for all of their shares of registered capital of Tai Na. Upon completion of the exchange, Tai Na became our wholly-owned subsidiary. All of these conditions to closing have been met, and we, Tai Na, the Tai Na Shareholders and our Majority Shareholders declared the exchange transaction consummated on May 31, 2006. The transaction was treated for accounting purposes as a capital transaction and recapitalization by the accounting acquirer and as a re-organization by the accounting acquiree. Business Description of the Issuer Since the reverse merger was consummated, we have continued operations of Tai Na, a company which is principally engaged in manufacturing, trading and distributing fresh tangerine and other fresh fruits in the PRC. Tai Na is located in Nan Feng County, Jiang Xi Province, the well known agricultural area for tangerine in China. The geographic advantage benefits us with respect to the control of manufacturing cost and product quality. We have self-owned property in Nan Feng County with a total area of 742,901 square feet, including manufacturing plants of 238,609 square feet and office building of 70,350 square feet. In order to effectively maintain the quality of tangerine, we have a set of temperature and humidity auto-control equipments with capacity of 1,500 tons. We also have two automatic product lines to select fruits, the hourly process capacity of which is 10 ton/hour and 15 ton/hour, respectively. During the year of 2011, our total production was 3,781 tons, better than the expectation of 3,000 tons. We expect the production capacity will reach 4,500 tons in 2012 due to the improvement of production efficiency. Since 2007, we have expanded our sales network by setting up the franchise retail stores for fresh fruits and related products. We also relocated our headquarters to Beijing, which we believe will have a positive effect on our corporate image and marketing strategy. In order to create our brand identity efficiently, we plan to acquire or form joint venture with the existing profitable and middle-size retail stores. We provide the stores with our standard management systems, supplies, as well as remodeling to unify store display, color and sign pursuant to the franchise requirements. We currently have four wholly-owned franchise retail stores in Beijing area, including the one opened in November of 2011 located at Feng Tai District, Beijing. The franchise retail stores build up the direct channel between the end users and us, which facilitates the process from our manufacturing plants to the markets, benefits us in adjusting our business strategies when market changes. In addition to our own products, we also work with our strategic partners to diversify the fruits in our store and ensure the prompt delivery. We believe we can expand our market shares through an effective and efficient franchise retail network. We expect more market shares via brand recognition in the near future. (4) Table of Contents Overview of Our Market Area China's citrus industry currently experiences transition from quantity concentration to quality concentration, from production only to diversified business segments covering pre-production to post-production. Citrus production in China has the following features: * Changes in Market Shares. Before the 1990s, approximately 70% of total citrus output was tangerine, 20% of the total were oranges. The percentages were changed to 55% for tangerine and 30% for orange in the past decade due to the improved quality of oranges with respect to size, outlook and taste. * Concentration on Chinese Market. Citrus products are primarily marketed in China. Approximately 2% of total citrus products are exported to different countries. * Increasing Fresh Fruits Consumption. Currently, the average consumption for fresh fruit is 61.4 kg per person per year in the world, of which fruit consumption of 55.4 kg per person per year in the developing countries, and 83.3 kg per person per year in the developed countries. In China, the average fruit consumption is 45.6 kg per person per year, deceased by 18% and 45%, compared to the developing countries and developed countries, respectively. Therefore, the fresh fruit market in China is still growing. * Preference to Fresh Fruits. 95% of citrus products in China are consumed as fresh fruit. Fruit manufacturing is not popular in China, most of which is for export only. In addition, the orange juices on Chinese markets are primarily made from concentrated or non-concentrated juices imported from Brazil and the United States. In general, citrus output increased tremendously in China in the past decades due to the increases in orchards. However, compared to the world's market, the citrus industry in China is undeveloped in terms of quality, output, manufacture and efficiency. There are four barriers in China's citrus industry: a) small manufacturing magnitude, primarily based on household; b) lack of technology input, primarily based on nature growth; c) undeveloped commercial systems, particularly in storage and transportation; d) no clear segments in the industry, particular in household base. It is a long-term goal to rid us of all these barriers. After China entered the World Trade Organization ("WTO"), the sales channels for citrus products should be more facilitated due to the open markets. In the long run, the export of Chinese citrus will increase constantly, for both fresh fruits and processed products. Marketing Strategies Expanding Retail Fruit Stores Network We believe franchise retail stores will benefit us in our business expansion and brand recognition. We preferred the stores operated in form of joint ventures with the existing profitable and middle-size retail stores because those stores have certain operating history and customers base. We reorganize the stores and provide the stores with our standard management systems, supplies, as well as remodeling to unify store display, color, and sign pursuant to the franchise requirements. The franchise retail stores will help build a direct channel between the end users and us, which will facilitate the process of moving product from our plants to the markets, and benefitting us in adjusting our business strategies when markets change. As of December 31, 2011, we had four wholly-owned franchise retail stores in Beijing area, including the one opened in November of 2011 located at Feng Tai District, Beijing. In 2012, we will evaluate the operation in the existing stores and replace those in poor performance with new stores. The total number of franchise stores will be increased to six. Expanding Logistic Center We believe a sound warehouse and logistics center will help us to improve efficiency and reduce operating expenses. Especially for fresh fruits, the prompt handling and delivery is significant to reduce loss from spoilage. Therefore, we focus on establishing a systematic logistics center to support the expanding retail network. On March 3, 2012, we entered into a five-year lease agreement for warehouse and logistic space of approximately 26,700 square feet to store, select, pack and deliver fresh fruits. After the full operation of the logistics center, we believe both operating expenses and cost of goods sold will be reduced due to large-scale purchases and delivery. (5) Table of Contents Improving Management Systems We have run retail fruit stores since 2007, experiencing economic boom and financial crisis, from which we summarize three key success factors, including good location, prompt delivery system and sophisticated leader. If good location is predetermined, prompt delivery and sophisticated leader will be significantly related to our management system. We will standardize our operating system; provide our employees with clear indicators in connection with sales skill, products display, storage, delivery, and marketing promotion. We will set up different modules to evaluate the store performance and employee performance. We believe an effective operating system will improve efficiency and encourage our employees. Seeking for Opportunities to Develop International Markets Our tangerines, known as "Nan Feng tangerine", are popular in the market due to the high quality, benefitting from the natural resources in Nan Feng County, which is a well known agricultural area for tangerines in China. Currently, we primarily market in China and hold a leading position in the Chinese market. However, this position is challenged since China’s accession to WTO in 2001. We believe the open-market policies will lower the barriers to entry, both in Chinese markets and global markets. WTO membership brought with it the opportunity to take advantage of new market access opportunities and new protections now available to China under the rules-based system of the WTO. In order to develop our international markets, we set up a department in charge of oversea markets in 2010, which included 4 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees. Our target markets including Europe, Middle-east, and Southeast Asia. In 2011, our revenues generated from international markets included approximately $100,000 from Dubai, approximately $10,000 from France, approximately $500,000 from Thailand, and approximately $700,000 from Indonesia. We believe there is great growth potential in international markets and we will keep looking for the opportunities oversea. Seeking for Strategic partners For Nan Feng tangerine, other fresh fruit and certain related products, we intend to enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties. These collaborations may be necessary in order for us to: • Enhance manufacturing capacities; • Setup franchise retail stores in our target markets located in North China, East China and South China; • Diversify the fresh fruit sold in the franchise stores; • Expand the sales network; • Increase sales revenue; and • Successfully build brand identity. Enhancing Manufacture Capacity We have self-owned property in Nan Feng County with a total area of 742,901 square feet, including manufacturing plants of 238,609 square feet and office building of 70,350 square feet. In order to effectively maintain the quality of tangerine, we have a set of temperature and humidity auto-control equipments with capacity of 1,500 tons. We also have two automatic product lines to select fruits, the hourly process capacity of which is 10 ton/hour and 15 ton/hour, respectively. During the year of 2011, our total production was 3,781 tons, better than the expectation of 3,000 tons. We expect the production capacity will reach 4,500 tons in 2012 due to the improvement of production efficiency. Increasing Expenses in Marketing We plan to increase the budget in advertising to support our franchise retail stores, which will cover our target markets including Beijing - North China, Haining, Hangzhou - East China, and Dongguang, Humen - South China. In addition, we retain professional consultants to integrate our marketing strategies. We believe their expertise will benefit us in connection with target markets definition, corporate image, brand identity and media preference. Competition The domestic and international markets for the citrus industry are intensely competitive and require us to compete against some companies possessing greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours. These include firms that compete in multiple geographic areas as well as firms that are primarily local in their operation. Competitive products include different fruits planted in domestic market and those imported from Southeast Asia, Japan, Taiwan, Europe, US and Canada. Competitive factors impacting our business include pricing, advertising, sales promotions, product innovation, increased efficiency in production techniques, the introduction of new packaging, and brand/trademark development and protection. Our competitive strengths include good quality with a high level of consumer acceptance; a national distribution network; sophisticated marketing capabilities; and a talented group of dedicated employees. However, we cannot be certain that efforts in marketing will be successful. Government Regulation The production, distribution and sale in the Chinese market of our products are subject to the PRC State Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, state consumer protection laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, various environmental statutes; and various other state and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, labeling and ingredients of such products. Employees We have to make a rational allocation and use of personnel to match our business growth. As of December 31, 2011, we had 65 full-time employees, of which 35 are experienced personnel in franchising management, export trading and purchasing. (6) Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on its strategic partners for a significant portion of its business. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with its strategic partners, our business could suffer For Nan Feng tangerine, other fresh fruit and certain related products, we intend to enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties. These collaborations may be necessary in order for us to: • Enhance manufacturing capacities; • Setup franchise retail stores in our target markets located in North China, East China and South China • Diversify the fresh fruit sold in the franchise stores; • Expand the sales network; • Increase sales revenue; and • Successfully build brand identity. We cannot assure that we will be able to enter into collaborative agreements with partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any future agreement may expose us to risks that our partner might fail to fulfill its obligations and delay commercialization of our products. We also could become involved in disputes with partners, which could lead to delays in or terminations of our development and commercialization programs and time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Our inability to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with other partners, or our failure to maintain such arrangements, would limit the number of product candidates which we could develop and ultimately, decrease our sources of any future revenues. Increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials could harm our business. The output of tangerine significantly relies on the local climate. The shortage of tangerine would increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability. Increases in the prices of our finished products resulting from higher raw material costs could affect affordability in some markets and reduce our sales. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of the tangerine that may be caused by natural disasters could negatively impact our net revenues and profits. Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for those periods. If we are unable to maintain brand identity and product quality, our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand identity for our "Nan Feng Tangerine". We cannot assure you, however, that additional expenditures and our renewed commitment to advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products' brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income tax in China in which we generate net operating revenues. In addition, our products are subject to sales and value-added taxes in China. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products' affordability and therefore reduce demand for our products. (7) Table of Contents If we are not able to achieve our overall long term goals, the value of an investment in us could be negatively affected. We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our growth prospects, which are generally based on the increase in our investment, and on an assessment of potential level or mix of product sales. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or mix of products necessary to achieve our growth objectives. Our assets are located in China and its revenues are derived from its operations in China In terms of industry regulations and policies, the economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to market oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. For example, all lands are state owned and are leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of State-owned Land Use Rights. The granting process is typically based on government policies at the time of granting and it could be lengthy and complex. This process may adversely affect our future manufacturing expansions. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with changing of governmental policies and measures. At present, our development of research and development technologies and products is subject to approvals from the relevant government authorities in China. Such governmental approval processes are typically lengthy and complex, and never certain to be obtained. Political and economic risks China is a developing country with a young market economic system overshadowed by the state. Its political and economic systems are very different from the more developed countries and are still in the stage of change. China also faces many social, economic and political challenges that may produce major shocks and instabilities and even crises, in both its domestic arena and in its relationship with other countries, including but not limited to the United States. Such shocks, instabilities and crises may in turn significantly and adversely affect our performance. Risks related to interpretation of China laws and regulations which involves significant uncertainties China’s legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, we cannot assure that changes in such laws and regulations, and their interpretation or their enforcement will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We conduct our business in the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade old policy of pegging its currency to the U.S. currency. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 6.5% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and August 31, 2007. However, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent our future revenues are denominated in currencies other the United States dollars, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results since our operating results are reported in United States dollars and significant changes in the exchange rate could materially impact our reported earnings. (8) Table of Contents Declining economic conditions could negatively impact our business Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due in part to the financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. In recent weeks, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The consequences of a potential or prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current economic conditions cannot be predicted, a lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect the price of oil, liquidity and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in this current report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside of China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings from our operations. The application of the "penny stock" rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common shares is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our common shares will be subject to the "penny stock" rules. The "penny stock" rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell our common shares, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common shares and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common shares as compared to other securities. Our common shares are thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or "thinly-traded" on the “Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; adverse outcomes, additions or departures of our key personnel, as well as other items discussed under this "Risk Factors" section, as well as elsewhere in this Current Report. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. (9) Table of Contents Volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by a single stockholder. Chen, Quan Long currently owns approximately 100% of our outstanding Series A and B Preferred shares, representing a majority of our voting power. This stockholder could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in the principal stockholder, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of this stockholder. While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with this principal stockholder. As such, it would be extremely difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by the Chen, Quan Long. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by the Chen, Quan Long will be viewed favorably by all shareholders of our company. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. PRC laws and regulations governing our business are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. (10) Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 